"ID","NAME","SCIENTIFIC_NAME","LIGHT","WATER","FERTILIZER","TEMPERATURE","HUMIDITY","FLOWERING","PESTS","DISEASES","SOIL","POT_SIZE","PRUNING","PROPAGATION","POISONOUS_PLANT_INFO"
"41","African Violet","SAINTPAULIA IONANTHA","African Violet plants do best and flower more in bright indirect light , close to an east-facing window is ideal. When the light is too low, the leaves turn dark green, lose their plump appearance, and the plant produces very few flowers. The leaves turn a pale yellow-green and the flowers fade quickly when there is too much light.","Allow the top 1""- 2"" of soil to dry out before watering. Avoid using water that has passed through a softener or water containing chlorine or fluorine. Always water African Violet houseplants from the bottom to prevent water getting on the leaves. Remove any excess water that is still in the saucer after 15 minutes.","Special fertilizer for African Violet plants is available wherever plants are sold. In a pinch, you can use any balanced, soluble, houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Feed African Violets monthly when the plant is actively growing. Over-fertilizing causes leaf tip burn, poor flower production, leaf cracks, and may even kill an African Violet plant.","These plants do well in temperatures of 75 degrees- 80 degrees Fahrenheit (23.9 degrees- 26.7 degrees Celsius) during the day and about 10 degrees cooler at night. Keep African Violet plants away from cold drafts and heating vents.","High humidity is preferable, but African Violets easily adapt to basic household humidity.","Quickly remove dead flowers and stems to encourage more flowers. Keeping the soil of African Violet houseplants on the dry side helps the plant bloom more often.","African Violets are bothered by spider mites and Mealy Bugs . Use a Qtip dipped in alcohol or Neem Oil to treat these insects as soon as they appear. Since the leaves of African Violet plants are easily damaged, only use commercial insecticides that are recommended for African Violets.","African Violets are susceptible to botrytis , powdery mildew , and erwinia blight. Preventing plants from getting diseases is much easier than treating diseases once they appear. Provide good air circulation and never get water on the leaves.","African Violets like a rich, airy, potting soil. Special African Violet soil is available at most garden centers. These plants should be re-potted every 6-12 months using fresh soil. This prevents unwanted salts from fertilizer s building up in the soil and burning the roots and leaves.","Keeping African Violets a little root-bound in a small pot encourages the plant to produce more flowers.","Remove 2-4 leaves from the bottom of an African Violet plant each month to encourage new leaf development at the top of the plant. Quickly and carefully remove any dead flowers and their stalks as soon as they appear.","African Violets are easily propagated by leaf cuttings during the spring. You'll need a little patience. It may take up to three months for new leaves to develop. You can read more about propagation using leaf cuttings in the Glossary of the website.","African Violets are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"42","Agave Plant","AGAVE ATTENUATA","Agave plants require very bright light throughout the year. You may have to move your agave to different locations around your home or office as the seasons change to maintain these high light areas. Agave plants love going outside in the warm weather.","During the fall and winter, when agave plants are resting, allow the top 75% of the soil to dry out before watering. In the spring & summer, when the plant is actively growing, water when the top 2""-3” of soil has dried out. Be careful not to over- water since succulent agave plants like to be kept on the dry side.","Feed monthly in spring & summer when an agave is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize in the fall and winter.","Agave plants like warm temperatures between 70 degrees- 80 degrees Fahrenheit (21.1 degrees- 26.7 degrees Celsius) in the spring and summer and cooler temperatures between 50 degrees- 60 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees- 15.6 degrees Celsius) in the fall and winter when resting. The leaves of an agave plant have a waxy coating over a powdery surface that seals them; this protects the plant against evaporation and reflects up to 75% of the incoming heat.","Agave plants, like all succulents, require very little humidity. High humidity can cause crown, stem, and root rot disease.","Outdoors, as an agave plant matures and stores up energy, it produces tall flower spikes. Indoors, an agave plant rarely flowers.","The agave plant snout weevil is the main plant pest problem to watch out for. The snout weevil chews on the leaves, lays eggs, and the babies (grubs) cause bacterial rot. Spider mites can also be a problem.","Erwinia and fungus fusarium cause the plant disease crown, stem, and root rot.","Use a quick draining succulent or cactus soil for agave plants.","Do not rush to re-pot an agave plant. They are slow growers and do not like to have their roots disturbed. When you do put your agave plant in a new container, don't plant it too deeply or it may develop stem rot. Be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of the container.","Agave plants rarely need pruning.","Outside, agave plants, are propagated using offsets. After you remove the offsets from the ""mother"" plant, allow them to sit out for a few days before planting them. This allows the offset roots to dry out and prevents root rot from killing the new plants. Avoid planting the offsets too deep, this prevents stem rot. Indoor agave plants rarely produce offsets so this advice is primarily for outdoor agave plants. Indoor agave plants rarely produce offsets so are not easily propagated.","Agave plants are poisonous plants with a #2 toxicity level. The sap of an is extremely irritating and contains an anti- coagulant that causes cuts, made by the spines or sharp tips of the agave plant, to bleed more than usual."
"43","Alocasia","ALOCASIA AMAZONICA","An Alocasia plant requires very bright indirect light but no direct sun.","Allow the top 2""- 3"" of soil to dry out before watering. Try to keep the soil evenly moist. Over-watering, wet leaves, and soggy soil makes an alocasia plant susceptible to a variety of serious fungal infections. Check the soil frequently until you are sure of the plant's watering needs. Alocasia plants require less water during the winter when it's dormant.","Fertilize every two weeks from late March through September with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize during the winter. Too much plant food results in salts building up in the soil and burning the leaves.","Alocasia plants prefer warm temperatures between 60 degrees- 80 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 degrees- 26.7 degrees Celsius). These plants become dormant with prolonged exposure to temperatures below 60 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 degrees Celsius) and may drop all of their leaves. Be sure to keep an Alocasia plant away from air conditioners and cold drafts. During warm summer months, an Alocasia can produce a new leaf every week and each new leaf may be twice the size of the previous leaf.","Alocasia plants grow best in high humidity. To increase the humidity, place the plant on a tray filled with pebbles and water. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. You can also increase the humidity by placing a small humidifier near the plant or grouping plants together. Do not mist the plant; misting encourages plant diseases.","The flowers of an alocasia plant are very small and inconsequential in comparison to the beautiful leaves.","Spraying an alocasia with warm soapy water every few weeks helps prevent Mealy Bugs , scale , Aphids , and spider mite problems. It also keeps the large leaves of the plant dust-free. If an Alocasia does become infested, spray with an ultra fine commercial insecticidal oil or Neem Oil . This kills both the pests and their eggs.","When alocasia plants are over-watered or when the leaves are consistently wet, they develop a variety of diseases such as crown, stem, and root rot , leaf spot, and xanthamonas. These diseases usually appear as dark brown or black spots on the leaves, surrounded by a yellowish rim. The best way to prevent plant diseases is to avoid over-watering, keep the leaves dry, and provide good air circulation around the plant. Once an alocasia is infected, quickly remove the damaged leaves and any leaves that have fallen off, isolate the plant from your other plants, and treat with a commercial Fungicide .","Use an organic well-aerated loose soil that contains a good amount of peat moss. If the soil seems a little heavy, add some builder's sand or perlite.","Alocasias plants like to be root-bound in small pots, so don't rush to put them into larger pots.","Quickly remove any yellow leaves or those that develop brown or black spots as that may be a sign of a fungal disease.","plant division is the best way to propagate.","This is a very poisonous plant with a #4 toxicity level . Kept an alocasia plant far away from small children and pets."
"44","Alocasia - Jewel Alocasia","ALOCASIA NEBULA IMPERIALIS","An alocasia plant requires very bright indirect light . Direct sun burns the leaves.","Always allow the top 2""- 3"" of the soil to dry out before watering. Keep the soil evenly moist. Over- watering, wet leaves, and soggy soil makes an alocasia plant susceptible to a variety of serious fungal infections. Check the soil frequently until you are sure of the plant's watering needs. Water less during the winter when it is dormant.","Fertilize every two weeks from late March through September with a balanced houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize an alocasia during the winter. Too much fertilizer causes salts to build up in the soil and burn the leaves.","Alocasia plants prefer warm temperatures between 60 degrees- 80 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 degrees- 26.7 degrees Celsius). Alocasia plants becomes dormant with prolonged exposure to temperatures below 60 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 degrees Celsius), and may drop all of their leaves. Be sure to keep an alocasia away from air conditioners and cold drafts. During warm summer months an alocasia plant can produce a new leaf every week and each new leaf may be twice the size of the previous leaf.","Alocasia plants grow best in high humidity. To increase the humidity around a houseplant, place the plant on a tray filled with pebbles and water. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. You can also increase the humidity by placing a small humidifier near the plant or grouping plants together.","An alocasia macrorrhiza produces a cream colored spathe-like flower (really a modified leaf).","Spraying an alocasia with warm soapy water every few weeks helps prevent Mealy Bugs , scale , Aphids , and spider mite problems. It also keeps the large leaves of the plant dust-free. If an alocasia plant does become infested with houseplant pests, spray with an ultra fine commercial insecticidal oil. This kills both the pests and their eggs.","When over- watered or when the leaves get wet, Aloasia plants may develop a variety of diseases such as crown, stem, and root rot , Leaf Spot, and Xanthamonas. These diseases usually appear as dark brown or black spots on the leaves surrounded by a yellowish rim. The best way to prevent plant diseases is to avoid over-watering, keep the leaves dry, and provide good air circulation around the plant. Once an alocasia is infected, quickly remove the damaged leaves and any leaves that have fallen off, isolate the plant from your other plants, and treat with a commercial Fungicide .","Use an organic well-aerated loose plant soil that contains a good amount of peat moss. If the soil seems a little heavy, add some builder's sand or perlite.","Alocasia plants prefer to be root-bound in small pots. Do not increase the size of the container until the roots have filled the existing pot and always move to the next size pot only.","Quickly remove any yellow leaves or those that develop brown or black spots as that may be a sign of a fungal disease.","Alocasia plants are propagated by plant division . You can read more about propagation techniques in the Glossary.","Alocasia plants are very Poisonous Houseplants with a #4 toxicity level ."
"45","Aloe Vera Plant","ALOE VERA","An Aloe Vera plant requires very bright indirect light","Water well and then allow the soil to thoroughly dry out before watering again. It can sometimes last 2-3 weeks before it needs water and requires even less moisture in the winter. An Aloe Vera Plant can be saved from severe under-watering, but rarely survives over-watering.","Aloe Vera plants prefer a different fertilizer than most houseplants. Feed monthly with a 10/40/10 plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","These plants likes dry, warm temperatures between 65 degrees- 85 degrees Fahrenhet (18 degrees- 29 degrees Celsius). Aloe Vera plants do not do well in temperatures below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.5 degrees Celsius)","Native to the deserts and need very little humidity.","","There are very few plant pests that bother an Aloe Vera.","Root-rot, caused by over watering, is the main problem.","Grows in almost any type of soil, but a quick draining well-aerated soil with some sand in it is best. A commercial cactus potting soil works well.","Keep in a small pot with drip holes in the bottom; this allows the soil to quickly dry- out and prevents root-rot.","Aloe Vera plants rarely need to be pruned.","Propagate using offsets or suckers.","Although the sap of an Aloe Vera plant is highly recommended for treating burns, other parts of the plant are poisonous . This plant has a #1 toxicity level ."
"46","Amaryllis","HIPPEASTRUM","Amaryllis plants need bright indirect light . Southern exposure is best, eastern and western exposures are adequate, northern exposure requires additional artificial light.","Water sparingly until the stem starts to grow out of the bulb. As the stem, leaves, and buds develop gradually increase your water. Keeping the soil moist helps prolong the Amaryllis flowers.","Fertilize an Amaryllis plant monthly with a fertilizer high in potassium and phosphorus and low in nitrogen (5-10-10) or (6-12-12). Always dilute the plant food to 1/2 the recommended strength.","An Amaryllis is a tropical plant and enjoys temperatures between 68 degrees- 70 degrees Fahrenheit. Once an Amaryllis plant blooms, move it to a cooler area (65 degrees Fahrenheit). This helps the flowers last longer.","Basic household humidity or even less keeps an Amaryllis plant healthy and free of diseases.","Plant Amaryllis bulbs any time from late fall to mid-spring using a good commercial potting soil. The bigger and fatter the Amaryllis bulbs, the larger the flowers will be. Be sure to soak the base and roots of Amaryllis bulbs in water for a few hours before planting them. It usually takes 7-10 weeks for the bulbs to bloom. It takes longer when bulbs are planted in the winter than when they are planted in the spring","thrip and spider mite infestations can be treated with the green solution (recipe in Glossary) or a commercial systemic insecticide approved for flowering plants.","Amaryllis plants develop blotchy leaves from various fungal and bacterial diseases. There is no good remedy for these plant infections. Isolate your plant to prevent diseases from spreading to other plants. Good air circulation and dry leaves help prevent diseases.","Plant an Amaryllis bulb in a good commercial bulb soil. If this is not available, use a quick-draining, nutritious, well-aerated potting mixture. When using a basic potting soil for your Amaryllis bulbs, add some sand and humus to prevent the soil from becoming too heavy when wet.","Amaryllis plants like to be root-bound in small pots.","Prune any diseased leaves so that bacterial or fungal infections do not spread to other parts of the plant.","Propagate your Amaryllis plant using offsets, or ""pups"" as they are sometimes called. Another way to propagate is to cut the Amaryllis bulb into four sections and plant each section in a 5"" pot.","Amaryllis are very poisonous bulb plants with a #3 Toxicity level. All parts of an Amaryllis contain phenanthridine alkaloids that can cause vomiting, very low blood pressure, and breathing problems. The bulbs of an Amaryllis contain oxalates that can cause excessive salivation and abdominal pain."
"47","Angel Wing Begonia","BEGONIA COCCINEA","Angel wing begonias like bright indirect light but no direct sun. Proper light helps the leaves and flowers develop a more intense color. Insufficient light causes the plant to become leggy and prevents flowering. When light is too intense, the edges of the leaves curl and turn brown.","Be careful not to over-water! If the plant is in a small pot, allow the top 1"" of soil to dry out before watering. In a larger pot, allow the top 2""-3"" of soil to dry out. Angel wing begonia containers must have drip holes in the bottom for proper drainage and the plant should never sit in water. When over-watered, the leaves turn yellow and fall off.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer when ian angel wing begonia is actively growing with a liquid plant food high in potassium. Fertilize every other month during the rest of the year. To prevent leaf burn, feed begonias when the soil is damp and always dilute the food to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Angel wing begonias do well when the temperature is 65 degrees- 75 degrees Fahrenheit (18.3 degrees- 23.9 degrees Celsius). Temperatures below 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10.0 degrees Celsius) damage leaves and flowers.","Average household humidity is sufficient, Never mist a begonia plant; wet leaves encourage powdery mildew and Leaf Spot Disease s.","bright indirect light and a fertilizer high in potassium help an Angel wing begonia produce more flowers. Remove dead or fading flowers as soon as they appear.","Mealy Bugs are the main pest that infects this plant. Do not use toxic pesticides on a begonia, they will damage the leaves. I recommend using the ""green solution "" or a commercial insecticidal soap .","Yellow halos on the leaves are a sign of Leaf Spot Disease , a plant bacteria that occurs when plant leaves stay wet or the soil is too soggy. As with all fungal and bacterial diseases, better air circulation, well-drained soil, dry leaves, and less water help control Leaf Spot Disease . Never mist a plant if Leaf Spot Disease is suspected. You can use a commercial Fungicide or the or the homemade remedy of putting a tablespoon or two of baking soda and a teaspoon or two of mineral oil in a spray bottle of water. Shake the solution well and then spray all areas of the plant.","Angel Wing begonias like a rich soil that's a little heavier than the soil used for other begonia plants. A heavy soil helps support the large root system and tall stems. I often use an African Violet mix.","Angel wing begonias like to be a little root-bound. Use a container with drip holes in the bottom that is an inch or two larger than the root ball. Select a heavy clay or ceramic pot that can support the plant as it gets taller.","Prune the older growth yearly during the winter or early spring. This prevents the plant from becoming leggy. New canes (stems) should be left alone. This is also a good time to re-pot your begonia if it has out-grown its existing container. Throughout the year, pinch off dead flowers as soon as they appear.","Stem Cuttings are the easiest way to propagate an angel wing begonia. Cut a 3""-5"" section from a non-flowering stem. The piece should have two to four nodes on it. Dip the cut end of the stem into a small amount of Rooting Hormone and plant it in a small container of perlite or sand. Plant about 3 stems per pot to have a bushy plant.","Angel Wing begonia plants have a #1 toxicity level due to the insoluble oxalates in the plant."
"48","Anthurium","ANTHURIUM","Anthurium plants like as much bright indirect light as possible, but no direct sun. If there is insufficient light, an anthurium plant produces fewer flowers and becomes thin and straggly as the leaves stretch toward the light.","Water well and then allow the top two or three inches of soil to dry out before watering again. Over-watering causes yellow leaf tips and under- watering causes brown leaf tips.","Use a balanced fertilizer or one a little high in nitrogen for anthurium plants. Feed monthly in the spring and summer, when anthurium plants are actively growing. Dilute the plant food to 1/3 - 1/4 the recommended strength.","Anthurium plants prefer temperatures 75 degrees Fahrenheit- 85 degrees Fahrenheit(23.9 degrees Celsius- 29.4 degrees Celsius) during the day and about 10 degrees cooler at night. Temperatures below 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) slow the growth of leaves and flowers.","The higher the humidity, the happier an anthurium plant.","Quickly remove fading or dying flower spathes as soon as they appear.","Anthurium plants are susceptible to Mealy Bugs , scale , Aphids , and thrip . The new tender growth is especially vulnerable. Examine your plants carefully every time you water. Spray with the "" green solution "" (recipe in Glossary) if you notice plant pests.","Fungal and bacterial plant diseases are a problem because of the high humidity and warmth anthuriums require. Keep the leaves dry and provide good air circulation to prevent plant diseases.","Use a rich, organic, loose potting soil that contains some mulch and sphagnum moss. The soil needs to drain quickly to prevent root-rot.","Anthurium plants are found in 4,"" 6,"" and 8"" containers. These plants like to be root-bound, don't rush to put them into a larger pot.","Prune faded or dead flowers and leaves as soon as they appear.","Propagate using Stem Cuttings and offsets.","Anthuriums are very poisonous plants with a #3 toxicity level. Please keep them away from small children and pets."
"49","Aralia Plant","POLYSCIAS FRUTICOSA","Aralia plants can survive in low light conditions, but grow faster and produce more leaves in medium to bright indirect light .","Too much water, resulting in root rot, is the main reason aralia plants die. Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. In low light conditions, an aralia may need water as little as every 2-3 weeks.","An Aralia plant requires very little fertilizer . Feed every other month when your aralia is actively growing with a plant food high in nitrogen diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Aralia plants prefer temperatures between 60 degrees- 85 degrees Fahrenheit (15.6 degrees- 29.4 degrees Celsius).","High humidity helps aralia plants grow better. Dry air, due to low humidity, is one of the reasons aralia plants lose leaves.","Although an aralia plant doesn't flower indoors, they can be trained to be a lovely bonsai plant.","Aralia plants are more pest resistant than many other indoor plants, but can still get Aphids , scale , Mealy Bugs , and spider mites. Spray an aralia frequently with a biodegradable soapy water solution to prevent problems.","Aside from root-rot caused by over-watering, aralia plants are fairly resistant to most houseplant diseases.","Aralias need a peat-based, well-aerated, light soil. This type of quick draining potting medium prevents water from accumulating in the soil and causing root-rot.","For such a large plant, aralia plants do much better when root-bound. Being in smaller pots also helps the soil dry out faster and prevents over- watering.","Trimming the tips of an aralia plant helps promote new growth.","Aralia plants are propagated by Stem Cuttings or, if the stems are thick enough, air layering . Propagating aralia plants is more successful when temperatures are above 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21.1 degrees Celsius)","Aralias are poisonous plants with a #2 toxicity level . All parts of the plant contain saponins which cause gastrointestinal irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea."
"50","Aralia Plant - Balfour","POLYSCIAS-SCUTELLARIA","Balfour Aralia plants do best in bright indirect light ; but will survive in low light if you are careful not to over-water.","Aralias have very fine roots and are easily over-watered. Always allow the top 1/2 of the soil in the pot to dry out before watering. During the winter when plants are resting, they need even less water. In low light situations, Aralias may need water only once a month.","Feed an Aralia plant every other month with a plant food high in nitrogen. Always dilute the fertilizer to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Balfour Aralias like basic household temperatures between 65-80 degrees Fahrenheit.","High humidity helps Aralia plants grow better. Dry air, due to low humidity, is one of the reasons Aralias drop leaves.","Although Aralia plants don't produce flowers indoors, they can be trained to be a lovely bonsai plant.","Aralia plants attract numerous houseplant pests such as mealybugs, scale , spider mites, and Aphids . Spraying the plant with a biodegradable soap and water mixture on a regular basis helps prevent plant pest infestations.","Root-rot, caused by over-watering, is the main plant disease affecting Aralia plants.","Aralias need a peat-based, well-aerated, light soil. This type of quick draining potting medium prevents water from accumulating in the soil and causing the roots to disintegrate.","Keep Aralia plants in small pots so the soil dries out quickly.","Prune the tips of an Aralia to keep the plant full.","Aralia Plants are propagated by Stem Cuttings or, if the stems are thick enough, air layering . Propagating Aralias is more successful when temperatures are above 70 degrees Fahrenheit.","Aralia plants are Poisonous Houseplants with a level #2 toxicity. All parts contain saponins which cause gastrointestinal irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea."
"31","Areca Palm","DYPSIS LUTESCENS","Areca palms require bright indirect light . Too much light or direct sun burns the fronds and causes them to yellow.","Keep the soil of an Areca palm moist but never soggy. Allow the top couple of inches to dry out before watering. Remember, the soil at the bottom of the container is much wetter than the soil at the top. Never allow an Areca palm to sit in water. If your household water has a lot of chemicals in it or passes through a water softener, allow it to sit out over- night before using it or use distilled water. Water containing a great deal of chemicals or salt can spot the leaves.","Feed an Areca palm monthly when it is actively growing with a balanced liquid fertilizer at 1/2 the recommended strength. Too much salty fertilizer spots the leaves.","Areca Palms prefer temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees during the day and around 55degrees at night. This plant is very sensitive to low temperatures; if you place it outside during the summer be sure to bring it in before temperatures dip below 50degrees.","High humidity is essential for the fronds of an Areca palm to keep looking good.","An Areca palm rarely blooms indoor; if it does, the flowers are very small and inconspicuous.","Spider mites and Mealy Bugs can be a problem. Check frequently for pests by examining the backs of the fronds and new growth. If an Areca palm becomes infected, spray with warm soapy water or an insecticidal soap at 1/2 the recommended strength. Spraying with a product containing alcohol can damage the fronds.","Because Areca palms require high humidity, they are susceptible to the fungus Pink Rot and Ganoderma. Pink rot develops in moist soil and causes the fronds in the crown (top) of the palm to turn brown and droop. Ganoderma, which is spread through the soil and on pruning tools, causes the lower fronds to droop and turn yellow, then gradually works its way up the plant. Neither of these diseases is treatable but both are preventable by keeping the soil drier and providing good air circulation around the plant.","Use a rich acidic soil that drains well. Add builder's sand if the soil is too heavy and clay like.","Plant an Areca palm in a container twice the size of the root ball. Palms like being a little root -bound, so don't rush to repot.","Prune any brown or yellow fronds that appear. Use a wet scissors to prune brown tips on the fronds. Areca palms have only ne growing tip at the very top of the plant; if that tip is damaged or cut off, the plant stops growing.","Areca palms are propagated by seeds, by separating the offsets or suckers at the base of a mature plant, or by plant division .","An Areca palm is a non- poisonous plant."
"32","Arrowhead Plant","SYNGONIUM PODOPHYLLUM","An arrowhead plant with dark green leaves can live in low to medium light. Arrowhead plant varieties with light green, white, pink, or burgundy leaves need medium to high light . The leaves of all arrowhead plants are bleached and turn an ugly gray-green color when placed in the direct sun.","Water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil dry out before watering again. An arrowhead plant droops when it needs water, but perks up quickly once watered ; when over- watered, these plants develop root rot and die.","Fertilize every two weeks in the spring and summer when an arrowhead plant is actively growing with a balanced, liquid plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Feed monthly in the fall and winter.","This plant does well in temperatures between 60degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (18degrees-24degrees Celsius)","Arrowhead plants prefer high humidity but still grow well in basic household humidity. Keep arrowhead plants other indoor plants, away from hot air vents, air conditioners, and fireplaces.","These plants do not flower indoors.","Arrowhead plants are susceptible to scale and Mealy Bugs , but it is spider mites that do the most damage. Spider mites are plant pests that suck the color from the leaves and make a houseplant look pale and anemic.","Bacterial root rot due to over-watering and bacterial Leaf Spot Disease due to high humidity are the main plant diseases to watch out for.","Arrowhead plants like a rich organic soil that drains well. An African violet mix is a good choice.","These plants do best when slightly root-bound. Do not rush to move them to the next sized container. Be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of any pot you use.","Keep the long runners and growth tips pruned and you can use them on tables or stand them on the floor. When left untrimmed, indoor arrowhead plants make beautiful hanging plants.","An arrowhead plant is easily propagated using Stem Cuttings or by plant division .","Arrowhead plants (Syngonium, Nepthytis) are Poisonous Houseplants with a #2 toxicity level ."
"33","Asparagus Fern","ASPARAGUS SPRENGERI FERN","Asparagus ferns grow best in bright indirect light coming from an east, west, or north-facing window. In lower light an asparagus fern grows very slowly and may develop yellow fronds.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. If in doubt, allow the fronds of a fern plant to turn pale green before watering. An asparagus fern requires more water in the hot summer months, and likes drier soil during the cold winter months. Asparagus ferns are very drought resistant; however, yellow stems indicate the plant needs more water while brown stems mean you may be over- watering your asparagus fern.","Feed an asparagus fern weekly during the summer with a water-soluble plant food. Feed monthly during the rest of the year. Always dilute the fertilizer to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Asparagus Ferns prefer temperatures between 50degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees-24degrees Celsius). They can even survive briefly in temperatures as low as 36degrees Fahrenheit (2.2degrees Celsius).","Since an Asparagus Fern is not really a fern, but a member of the Lily Family, it does well in normal to low humidity.","An Asparagus Fern gets small white flowers that turn into poisonous red berries.","An Asparagus Fern can get Mealy Bugs , spider mites, Aphids , scale and thrip s. Asparagus Ferns do not like pesticides so use a mild solution of insecticidal soap to get rid of plant pests.","","Asparagus Ferns like a well- aerated potting soil that drains quickly. If your Asparagus Fern soil seems too heavy or clay-like, add some sand, perlite, or peat moss.","Keep an Asparagus Fern root-bound in small pots to encourage the long graceful stems to grow.","An Asparagus Fern rarely needs to be pruned. If your Asparagus Fern gets yellow stems due to some stress, simply cut them off as close to the soil surface as possible.","Asparagus Ferns are propagated by plant division . The best time to propagate an Asparagus Fern is in the spring before it starts producing new growth. The root ball of an Asparagus Fern is often very difficult to divide, so have plenty of strong tools available.","Asparagus Ferns are Poisonous Houseplants with a #1 toxicity level . The red berries on Asparagus Fern Houseplants can cause digestive problems if eaten."
"34","Azalea","RHODODENDRON","Azalea plants require bright indirect light while blooming, but no direct sun. If there is not enough light, the flower buds on an azalea plant won't open.","Allow the top 2""-3"" of soil to dry out before watering. Azaleas are acid loving plants; if your water is alkaline add one tablespoon of vinegar to each gallon of water. You can also water azaleas with leftover tea. Large numbers of leaves drop off if the soil is too wet or too dry.","Fertilize monthly with an acidic fertilizer diluted to 1/3 the recommended strength. Never fertilize your azalea plant when it is in bloom.","Azalea plants thrive and their flowers last longer when the temperature is 50degrees-60degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees-15.6degrees Celsius) at night and 60degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-21.1degrees Celsius)F during the day. Temperatures over 80degrees Fahrenheit (26.7degrees Celsius) cause leaf drop and flowers to quickly fade.","Azalea plants do well in normal to high humidity.","When purchasing an azalea for yourself or as a gift, buy one that has buds barely showing a little color as well as open flowers. Once brought home, place your new azalea in a bright, cool location, away from heaters, air conditioners, and direct sun. This should keep the plant in bloom for quite a while.","Azalea plants are susceptible to spider mites, scale , and nematodes.","Azalea gall occurs in early spring. New leaves curl, become pale, turn brown and die. Petal blight, powdery mildew , and rust are all types of fungus that can infect azaleas. Remove diseased leaves as soon as they appear and spray with a Fungicide .","Use a rich acidic planting mixture that drains well.","Azaleas can be found in 4"", 6"", and 8"" pots.","Remove dead flowers as soon as they appear and prune bare branches.","Azalea plants are propagated by Stem Cuttings, grafts, and tissue culture, but it is a difficult process. I recommend leaving it to the professionals.","All parts of an Azalea contain a substance called grayanotoxin which makes the plant very poisonous with a #4 toxicity level. Keep azalea plants away from children and pets."
"35","Baby's Tears Plant","SOLEIROLIA HELXINE","Baby's Tears plants like bright, indirect light but no direct sun.","Keep the soil of a Baby Tear's plant moist but never soggy. If the soil stays too wet, the roots and stems die.","Feed every two weeks in the spring and summer when a Baby's Tears plant is actively growing. Use a balanced fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Normal household temperatures or even a little cooler are best, 60degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-23.9degrees Celsius) is ideal.","High humidity and good air circulation help a Baby's Tears plant to grow well and prevents brown leaves.","A Baby's Tears plant gets tiny, white, star-shaped flowers in the late spring.","Baby's Tears plants are susceptible to whitefly , scale , and Aphids . You can read about these plant pests in the Glossary of the website.","Root-rot, due to over-watering, is the main disease to that affects this plant.","Baby's Tears plants require a well-aerated, quick draining, potting soil that contains a good amount of peat moss.","These are small plants and are usually are found in 4"" or 6"" pots.","Trim a Baby's Tears plant with a sharp scissors to maintain its shape and fullness.","Propagate by plant division and Stem Cuttings . You can read more about these propagation techniques in the Glossary of the website.","A Baby's Tears plant is non- poisonous and looks perfect in a child's room."
"36","Bamboo Palm","CHAMAEDOREA SEIFRIZII","Although a bamboo palm grows faster in bright indirect light , it still does well in medium light, and grows very slowly in low light if you're careful not to over-water.","Allow the top 1/3 of the soil of a bamboo palm to dry out before watering. These plants like barely moist but never soggy soil. Never allow a bamboo palm to sit in the excess water that drains from the pot. Do not use water that has passed through a softener because the high salt content damages the leaves. Leaf tips look pale in color and green leaves fall off when a bamboo palm is over-watered. New growth and leaf tips turn brown when a bamboo palm is under-watered. The confusing thing is that yellow leaves can develop when the plant is over or under- watered, so you need to check the soil as far down as you can to know if the plant needs water.","Feed a bamboo palm monthly in the spring and summer with a fertilizer high in nitrogen diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Do not fertilize a bamboo palm if it is not actively growing or if the soil is very dry.","A bamboo palm does well in temperatures between 65degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-26.7degrees Celsius).","All palms, including bamboo palms, like high humidity but still do well in basic household humidity.","","Bamboo palms are very susceptible to spider mites, scale , and Mealy Bugs . Keep a bamboo palm clean by spraying it often with a mixture of biodegradable liquid soap and water. If the pests persist, spray the plant with an insecticidal soap .","Root- rot due to over watering, sooty mold , fungal and viral infections such as rust can alb a problem.","Bamboo palms need a basic, well-aerated potting soil that drains quickly but still retains moisture.","Re-pot when the roots have filled the existing container. Always use the next size pot and nothing larger, be sure there are drip holes in the bottom so excess water can drain out.","Cut brown leaf tips with a wet scissors, and remove bare stalks. Clean your plant tools in alcohol after using them to prevent spreading plant diseases from plant to plant.","Bamboo palms are propagated from seeds. This is a very slow-growing plant and It usually takes 2-5 years for a bamboo palm to reach a decent size. I'd recommend leaving propagation to the professionals and buying an established plant.","Although the ASPCA lists a bamboo palm as a non- poisonous houseplant, other experts state that the entire plant, especially any berries that appear, is toxic. We've erred on the side of caution and have listed a Bamboo Palm as a poisonous houseplant with a #1 toxicity level ."
"37","Begonia Plant","BEGONIA","Although certain varieties of begonia can adapt to lower light, most begonias need medium to bright indirect light . The better the light, the more flowers a begonia plant produces. Leaves and flowers drop off when the light is too low.","Water a begonia well and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Too much water causes mildew, mold, and permanent root damage. Water dripped on the leaves may cause leaf-rot.","Feed a Begonia plant monthly with a fertilizer high in phosphorous at 1/2 the recommended strength.","Begonias plants do well in cool temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees.","A Begonia needs a great deal of humidity to thrive. You can increase the humidity by placing the plant on a wet pebble tray, by putting a small humidifier near the plant, or by grouping several plants close to each other and creating a mini- greenhouse effect.","The brighter the light, the more flowers a begonia produces.","Begonia plants are relatively pest-free.","Because of the high humidity begonia plants require, powdery mildew is a major problem. A commercial Fungicide is usually the best way to get rid of powdery mildew on a begonia plant. To help prevent mildew and mold provide good air circulation and keep the leaves dry.","Begonia plants need a rich well-aerated soil that drains quickly. African Violet soil is a good choice.","Use a clay or terra cotta pot for a begonia; this helps the soil dry out quickly and prevents root-rot.","Immediately remove any dead leaves, stems, and flowers from a Begonia Plant to help prevent mold and mildew. Prune long stems to keep a Begonia Plant compact and full.","Begonia Plants are easily propagated from stem tip or leaf cuttings.","Begonias are poisonous plants with a #1 toxicity level . They are especially toxic to dogs and cats."
"38","Begonia Rex","BEGONIACEAE","A Begonia Rex plant needs plenty of bright indirect light but no direct sun. Since a Begonia Rex does not bloom very often, it does well in less light than some other begonias and can even grow under fluorescent lights.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before you water. Begonias like to be evenly watered but hate being over-watered. During the winter, when the plant is dormant, reduce your water.","Fertilize in the spring when new growth starts to appear. Feed a Begonia Rex every two weeks with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength. Feed less in the fall and and not at all in the winter.","Begonia Rex plants like average to warm temperatures and are sensitive to temperatures below 60degrees . The leaves can be damaged by large temperature changes.","A Begonia Rex plant requires high humidity, but avoid misting the plant. Misting can cause powdery mildew on Begonia plant leaves. Cluster your plants to create a mini greenhouse effect or put your Begonia Rex on a wet pebble tray to increase the humidity. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","The flowers of a Begonia Rex are very small and inconsequential; they often pale in comparison to the gorgeous leaves.","Mealybug may infest sections of a Begonia plant where the leaf joins the stem or the stem joins the rhizome.","Because Begonia Rex plants like high humidity, they are especially prone to bacterial and fungal infections. Never spray the leaves!!","Use a loose well aerated soil that drains quickly to prevent over watering and root rot.","Begonia Rex plants like large, relatively shallow pots where the rhizomes have room to spread.","Prune leggy Begonias plants to keep them bushy and full. Rotating potted Begonias keeps the foliage growing in a balanced manner.","Propagate a Begonia Rex using stem and leaf cuttings.","Begonias have a #1 toxicity level and are especially poisonous to dogs and cats."
"39","Bird of Paradise Plant","STRELITZIA","A Bird of Paradise plant requires very bright light . This plant can even be placed in the direct sun if you do it gradually and allow the leaves to slowly adapt. You may have to move a Bird of Paradise plant to different areas of your home as the seasons change in order to give it adequate light; placing it close to a south- facing window is always best.","In the spring and summer keep the soil moist but never soggy. A Bird of Paradise plant needs less water in the fall and winter. Water from the bottom so the soil stays loose and remains well aerated. Water that has a high salt content burns the leaves.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer when a Bird of Paradise is actively growing; use a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize a Bird of Paradise plant in the fall and winter when it is resting. Excess plant food deposits salts in the soil and these salts cause leaf tip burn.","An indoor Bird of Paradise plant grows best in temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-23.9degrees Celsius) during the spring, summer, and fall. In the winter, when the plant is ""resting,"" keep the temperature 10degrees cooler. Temperatures below 50degrees Fahrenheit (10.0degrees Celsius) cause the leaves to curl and turn black.","A Bird of Paradise plant does well in basic household humidity.","Unlike the outdoor varieties, an indoor Bird of Paradise plant rarely blooms.","A Bird of Paradise is susceptible to scale, Mealy Bugs, and spider mites. Fortunately, these plant pests are quickly detected on the large broad leaves and easily wiped off with a soft cloth or warm soapy water. Alcohol, leaf shine, or any spray pesticide should never be used on the leaves; they harm the matte finish on the leaves.","The large leaves of a Bird of Paradise Plant are susceptible to a plant disease called Leaf Spot which can be caused by either a fungus or a bacteria. Remove infected leaves from the Bird of Paradise Plant quickly, clean out any leaf pieces in the soil, and avoid getting water on the leaves. If using a commercial Fungicide, test it first on a small section of a leaf to be sure it won't ruin its appearance.","Use a basic potting soil that retains water but drains well.","Check to see if the roots of the plant have filled the pot. If the plant is root bound, it may not be able to absorb enough water for the new leaves to unfold. When re-potting a Bird of Paradise, move to the next size pot and nothing larger, be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of the pot. A 3'-4' Bird of Paradise plant is usually available in 10"" pots. A 5'-7' Bird of Paradise comes in a 14"" pot.","Cut off any dead or damaged leaves and stems close to the soil.","The best way to propagate a Bird of Paradise plant is by plant division. You can read about the plant division techniques in the Glossary of the website.","A Bird of Paradise plant has a #1 toxicity level."
"40","Bird's Nest Fern","ASPLENIUM NIDUS","A Bird's Nest fern does well in medium indirect light. The distinctive bright green leaves become pale when exposed to too much light. Direct sun causes unsightly burn marks on the leaves.","Keep the soil moist but never soggy at all times.","fertilizer once or twice in the spring and summer, when the fern is actively growing. Over-fertilization causes more problems for a Bird's Nest fern than never fertilizing at all. Use a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","A Bird's Nest fern likes temperatures between 70degrees-90degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees-32.2degrees Celsius) during the day and about 10degrees cooler at night. These ferns grow slowly when the temperature is not within this range and leaves are damaged by hot or cold drafts. The base of the fronds turn yellow when the temperature is too warm.","High humidity is essential. The higher the humidity the longer the fronds grow, indoors this can be up to 18” and outdoors 3ft-4 ft. Lack of humidity causes major problems: the entire leaf may turn yellow, the tips of the leaves may turn brown, and the plant may stop growing. If the humidity in your home is too low, consider putting your fern on a wet pebble tray, be sure the plant is sitting on pebbles and not in the water.","","A Bird's Nest fern is susceptible to Mealy Bugs , scale , and Aphids . Use a Qtip dipped in alcohol to treat plant pests near or on the crown; never spray any liquid directly on the crown.","Misting encourages bacterial and fungal infections such as Erwinia Blight. The leaves should always be kept dry.","Bird's Nest ferns grow well in a soil high in organic material that holds water but is still loose and not heavy and clay-like.","As a Bird's Nest fern grows and its roots fill the existing container, re-pot to the next size container. Be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of any pot you use.","","These ferns are propagated by spores and tissue culture and cannot be propagated by plant division like many other ferns. Under absolutely perfect conditions, tiny baby offsets may appear below the mature leaves; these can be used for propagation . In most cases, propagation is best left to the professionals.","Bird's Nest Ferns are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"61","Bleeding Heart Vine","CLERODENDRUM","A Bleeding Heart Vine plant loves very bright light but no direct sun. The brighter the light, the more blossoms a Bleeding Heart Vine produces.","Keep the soil of a Bleeding Heart Vine moist in the spring and summer but not soggy. When a Bleeding Heart Vine is resting in the fall and winter, place it in a cool location and water infrequently. Never use ice cold water on a Bleeding Heart Vine.","Feed a Bleeding Heart Vine plant every two weeks with a balanced fertilizer at 1/2 the recommended strength when the plant is actively growing.","A Bleeding Heart Vine does well in regular household temperatures in the spring and summer, but likes cooler temperatures between 55-60 degrees when it is resting in the late fall and winter.","Bleeding Heart Vine Plants grow better when there is high humidity in the spring and summer and normal household humidity the rest of the year.","A Bleeding Heart Vine usually flowers from March through October (spring through summer) when it is getting very bright light . The number of flowers a Bleeding Heart Vine produces gradually decreases as Fall approaches.","Bleeding Heart Vine Plants are seldom bothered by pests, but every once in a while Spider Mites and Mealy Bugs can be a problem.","botrytis Blight is a plant disease that affects Bleeding Heart Vine Plants, but can be prevented by keeping the plant in an area with good air circulation from a fan or a window breeze.","Use a rich organic soil that drains quickly for a Bleeding Heart Vine Plant.","Re-pot a Bleeding Heart Vine Plant every year in the spring to the next size pot.","A Bleeding Heart Vine Plant produces long, weak stems that need to be pruned back in the late fall after the plant has finished blooming. Pruning a Bleeding Heart Vine encourages the plant to become bushier. Since the beautiful flowers of a Bleeding Heart Vine only develop on the new growth, it's important to cut the plant back only after it blooms.","Propagate a Bleeding heart Vine plant from stem tip cuttings in the late spring or summer. Always use a sterile potting soil when re-potting a Bleeding Heart Vine to prevent botrytis and other fungal infections from developing. A Bleeding Heart Vine Plant can also be propagated by seeds in the early spring.","Bleeding Heart Vine Plants are Poisonous Houseplants with a level #3 toxicity. Quite a bit of the plant needs to be eaten before there is a serious problem. However, small children, small dogs, and other pets should be kept away from Bleeding Heart Vine houseplants."
"62","Boston Fern","NEPHROLEPIS EXALTATA","Boston ferns prefer bright indirect light . Placing a Boston fern in front of a window with a northern exposure allows it to get sufficient light but not so much that the leaves lose their vibrant green color.","Allow the top 30% of the soil to dry-out before watering. The fronds or leaves may even turn a pale green which indicates the fern needs water. Crispy brown fronds, especially in the center of a Boston fern, mean the plant is being over-watered. Watering with ""hard water"" causes white marks on the leaves. A Boston fern is more drought-resistant than most ferns, so when in doubt, don't water.","Feed a Boston Fern monthly when the plant is actively growing with a balanced liquid fertilizer . Dilute the plant food 1/2 to 1/4 the recommended strength to prevent the ends of the fronds from burning and turning brown.","Boston Ferns prefer temperatures between 60degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (15.6-21.1degrees Celsius). Keep all types of ferns away from heat sources such as fireplaces heaters. Temperatures below 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius) or above 90degrees Fahrenheit (32.2degrees Celsius) may damage the leaves.","Ferns grow best in very high humidity which is rarely found in our homes or offices. If your fern leaf tips are turning brown because of low humidity, try setting the plant on a wet pebble tray. Be sure the fern is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","","Aphids , Mealy Bugs , and spider mites are a problem. Since pesticides damage the fronds of ferns, spray often with a mild soapy water solution to prevent and treat pest infestations.","Boston Ferns are fairly disease resistant.","The best soil to use is a good, indoor potting soil, add a little extra peat moss to help it drain quickly.","Repot a Boston fFern to the next size pot when the roots of the plant have filled the existing pot. When in doubt, do not re-pot; ferns do well when root-bound. Do not fertilize a fern for several weeks after re-potting.","Cut dead fronds off as soon as they appear. Dead leaves on any houseplant should immediately be removed since they drain energy from the plant.","Propagate Boston ferns by plant division . Use a serrated knife to cut the fern root- ball in half or in quarters. Plant the sections in small pots to prevent over-watering.","Boston Ferns are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"63","Bougainvillea","BOUGAINVILLEA","A Bougainvillea Plant needs bright full sun for at least 5-6 hours every day in order to bloom. Lack of light is the main reason why a Bougainvillea Plant doesn't flower indoors. Keep a Bougainvillea These plants need at least 5 hours of sun to grow and flower indoors. Place as close to a south or west facing window as possible.","Bougainvillea is a drought tolerant plant that should be kept on the dry side. Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. A bougainvillea may even wilt a little to let you know it needs water. When you do water a bougainvillea plant, water deeply and cover the entire surface of the soil. Good drainage is essential and a bougainvillea should never sit in water. Frequent light waterings encourages weak roots and discourages good flower color. During the winter, a bougainvillea requires even less water. If over-watered bougainvillea plants develop root rot, do not flower, and drop leaves. If the soil totally dries out, bracts and leaves fall off.","Fertilize monthly when the plant is in bloom with a special bougainvillea or hibiscus plant food high in iron and micronutrients. This type of plant food helps strengthen the thin delicate roots and increases the number of blooms. When a bougainvillea plant is resting or not producing flowers during the winter months, fertilize every other month, diluting the plant food to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize if the soil is very dry or it will burn the roots.","A bougainvillea does well in temperatures between 70degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit during the day and 60degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit at night. When resting during the winter, Bougainvilleas prefer temperatures between 50degrees-60degrees Fahrenheit.","Bougainvilleas likes high humidity, especially when it is about to bloom. During the winter, when it's resting, A Bougainvillea Plant requires less humidity.","Bougainvillea Plants, like Peace Lilies and Lipstick Plants, produce more flowers when stressed. Keeping a Bougainvillea root-bound and on the dry side encourages it to bloom. Bougainvillea Plants will not bloom if they don't get 5-6 hours of bright sun each day.","A Bougainvillea is a very pest resistant plant. On rare occasions, Aphids may be a problem for a Bougainvillea, or caterpillars may infest the plant if you put it outside during the summer.","Leaf Spot Disease can occur because of the high humidity a Bougainvillea needs. Keep the leaves of a Bougainvillea Plant dry to help prevent Leaf Spot Disease and use a Fungicide to control Leaf Spot Disease ifit occurs.","Bougainvillea Plants need a loamy soil with a great deal of organic material in it. It's important for the soil to drain quickly to prevent root rot.","Bougainvillea Plants grow well in large hanging baskets at least 10""-12"" in size or in 5-10 gallon clay planters. I recommend clay planters because they allow the soil to dry out faster. Bougainvilleas flower more often when they are root-bound.","Prune a Bougainvillea plant to maintain its shape and size. It's perfectly fine to remove entire branches or limbs to get a bougainvillea to fit a particular area.","Propagate a Bougainvillea Plant using Stem Cuttings .","A Bougainvillea Plant is a very poisonous houseplant and has a #3 Toxicity level . The sap from a Bougainvillea can cause a rash that resembles poison ivy so be sure to wear gloves when pruning this plant."
"64","Bromeliad - Silver Vase","AECHMEA FASCIATA","A Bromelia fasciata (Silvr Vase Plant) requires very bright light in order to flower. Once the pink bracts appear, move the plant to lower light to prolong the colorful bracts.","Keep the “cup” of this type of bromeliad filled with fresh water. Clean the cup weekly and replace the water with clean water to prevent diseases, gnats, and mosquitos. Dampen the soil and do not water again until the top 1/2” of soil has dried out. Never allow the soil to totally dry out and never use hard water. The lime in hard water disfigures the leaves. These plants have a very small root system so be careful not to over-water.","Feed monthly in the spring, summer, and fall with a liquid plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. During the winter, fertilize a every other month. The best way to fertilize is to spray the liquid food directly on the leaves. Never put food into the central cup.","The colorful bracts last longer if you keep the temperature between 6odegrees-75degrees F (17degrees- 24degrees C). Aechmea fasciatas can survive colder temperatures than other bromeliads.","Bromeliads need moderate humidity.","After three or four years, once the plant matures, a bromeliad archaea fasciata produces a tall flower stalk with numerous pink bracts. The real flowers are small blue blooms that grow between the bracts. Although the tiny blue flowers quickly die, the bright pink bracts often last for 5 or 6 months when the temperature is cool and the light low.","Change the water and clean the cup every 7-10 days to prevent plant pests such as gnats, mosquitos, Mealy Bugs , and scale .","Fungal plant diseases such as root rot, crown rot , rust disease, and leaf spot can infect bromeliads.","I recommend using either a bromeliad or orchid potting soil. If you want to make your own mix, use equal parts leaf mold, peat moss and coarse sand or equal parts fir bark, peat moss, and sharp sand or perlite.","As the young bromeliad matures and outgrows a 4” or 6” pot, move it to the next size pot in the spring. After 3 or 4 years, the plant reaches maturity and should remain in an 8"" pot. Bromeliads like to be root-bound in small pots so don't rush to re-pot them.","a bromeliad contains substances that may cause skin irritations and contact dermatitis in some people and pets.""","Bromeliads are propagated using the “pups” or offsets that grow around the base of the plant. Wait until these offsets are about 6” (15 cm) in size before digging them up and planting them in a 4” pot of their own.","Although considered a non- poisonous houseplant, a bromeliad contains substances that may cause skin irritations and contact dermatitis in some people and pets."
"65","Bromeliad Guzmania","BROMELIACEAE","Bromeliad plants are very adaptable, and there is a variety for every light condition. If your bromeliad has thin green leaves it can survive in low light . If it t has thick gray leaves, it needs medium light. The flowers of a bromeliad plant fade quickly and the leaves turn pale green if it's placed in very bright light . The leaves get further apart and turn dark green when the plant needs more light.","Bromeliad plants are drought resistant succulent s that like dry soil. These houseplants have very small roots and over-watering is the number one reason bromeliads die. Some have ""tanks"" that like being filled with water; others have fine hairs on their leaves that enjoy being misted.","Feed bromeliad plants by spraying a liquid fertilizer directly onto the leaves a few times each season. Dilute the plant food 1/2 to 1/4 the recommended strength. Never put fertilizer into the central cup of a bromeliad.","Bromeliads are tropical plants that can survive in temperatures between 40-100 degrees, but prefer 70-75 degrees during the day and ten degrees cooler at night. The blooms on Bromeliad houseplants last longer when the temperature is cool.","Bromeliad plants grow well in basic household humidity.","Less intense light and cooler temperatures help bromeliad flowers stay colorful longer. Indoor bromeliad plants bloom only once. As the bromeliad flower starts to die, the plant produces pups, baby plants around the base of the mother plant. Cut off the dying flower, so the plant can direct its energy to helping the ""pups"" grow.","scale and mealy bug can be a problem for bromeliads.","Fungal plant diseases such as Crown, Stem and Root Rot, Rust Disease, and Leaf Spot may infectthe Guzmania variety of bromeliads.","Use a light well-aerated fast draining soil. Add sand or perlite if the soil seems too heavy.","During the spring, as a bromeliad matures and outgrows its existing pot, move the plant to the next size container After 3 or 4 years, when a bromeliad has reached maturity, it should remain in an 8' pot. Bromeliads like to be root-bound in small pots so don't rush to put them into a larger container.","Bromeliads rarely need to be pruned. If leaf tips turn brown, trim them with a sharp, wet scissors.","Once the bromeliad blooms die, small plants called offsets or pups grow around the base of the plant. When these offsets are several inches tall, dig them out and plant them in a 4” pot of loose soil. Be careful not to over-water the new plants while the roots are developing.These new plants usually bloom in 1-3 years.","Bromeliads are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"66","Cactus Plant","CEREUS PERUVIANUS MONSTROSIS","Cacti like as much bright indirect light as you can provide. Introduce a cactus plant to direct sunlight gradually to prevent sunburn. The ideal location for a small cactus pot is on the windowsill of a south-facing window.","Allow the soil of a cactus to almost totally dry out before watering, then water deeply and thoroughly. Never allow a Cactus to sit in water. A cactus requires more water in the spring, summer, and early fall when it is growing than in the winter. Over-watering is the main reason cactus plants die.","Use a fertilizer low in nitrogen and high in potassium at 1/4 the recommended strength. The type of fertilizer used for tomatoes works well. Fertilize monthly in the late spring and summer when a cactus is actively growing. Do not fertilize the rest of the year.","An indoor cactus plant likes temperatures between 60degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-26.7degrees Celsius)","This plant comes from the desert and does well in very low humidity.","After a 3 month resting period and under proper conditions, a cactus plant may bloom during the late fall and winter.","Even plants full of thorns get pests. These plants are susceptible to Mealy Bugs , scale , spider mites, and Aphids . scale is usually found around the thorns and can be scrapped off with a child's toothbrush. Spray the green solution (recipe in the Glossary) to get rid of any other cactus pests.","Over-watering leads to crown, stem, and root rot .","Use a fast-draining, porous, sandy soil to prevent over-watering and root-rot. You can purchase special cactus/ succulent soil at a nursery or make your own.","Vertical cactus plants need pots that have a diameter 1/2 the height of the plant. Horizontal cactus plants need pots that have a diameter 2"" larger than width of the plant. If a cactus plant starts to topple, place it in a deeper pot.","","A cactus plant is propagated by seeds, plant division, and plant cuttings. plant cuttings are definitely the easiest method.","This is a poisonous plant with a #2 Toxicity level."
"67","Caladium Plant","CALADIUM","A caladium requires very bright indirect light . Keep your plant out of the direct sun to prevent leaf burn.","The soil of a caladium plant should be moist but never soggy during the growing season. As the leaves start to die in the early fall and the plant goes into its resting/dormant period, gradually reduce the water until the soil has thoroughly dried out.","Fertilize every two weeks when a caladium is actively growing with a water-soluble plant food, high in nitrogen, diluted to at 1/2 the recommended strength. Always dilute the plant food or the salt in the fertilizer will burn the leaves.","A caladium plant likes warm temperatures between 70degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees-29.4degrees Celsius) with as little fluctuation in temperature as possible. During the five or so months when a Caladium is dormant, the temperature should be cooler but never below 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius).","Caladium plants need a great deal of humidity to their leaves turning brown and curling. There are several ways to increase the Humidity for Plants in a dry home or office: You can set a plant on a bed of wet gravel or pebbles. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. Place a small humidifier in the room with your plants. Group several houseplants near each other to create a mini greenhouse effect.","Caladium flowers are inconspicuous. The leaves are the beautiful part of this plant.","The colorful leaves of caladium plants attract Mealy Bugs , spider mites, and Aphids . Gently wash off any pests on the delicate leaves with warm soapy water. If the problem persists, try Neem Oil .","The high humidity caladium plants require may cause fungal diseases such as fusarium and pythium and bacterial diseases such as leaf spot. Providing good air circulation and keeping caladium leaves dry, helps prevent diseases. Use Neem Oil or a commercial Fungicide that can be mixed with the soil to treat diseases","Caladium plants like a slightly acidic, fast-draining soil. Once a month water with leftover tea or a very dilute solution of water and vinegar.","Plant caladium tubers in a 4""-6"" pot that has drip holes in the bottom. Cover the tubers with 1""-2"" of soil.","","Caladiums do best when propagated in the spring after the plant has had a 5-month ""rest."" Digging up and dividing the calathea tubers is the best propagation method","Caladiums are very poisonous plants with a #3 toxicity level ."
"68","Calathea Plant","CALATHEA ROSEOPICTA","A Calathea plant likes bright indirect light ; so placing it in front of an east, west, or north window is ideal. Too much direct sun burns the leaves and causes the beautiful leaf colors to fade.","Calatheas are very sensitive to the water you use. Hard water, soft water, fluoridated water, or water of poor quality causes the leaves to turn brown from leaf burn. The best way to water is to use distilled water, rain water, or allow your tap water to sit out over night before using it. Keep the soil moist but never soggy. Allow the top 2-3” to dry out before watering. Never let a Calathea Plant sit in water.","Feed monthly in the spring, summer, and fall with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Don't fertilize if the plant is not growing.","Calatheas like temperatures between 65degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-26.7degrees Celsius), and do not like cold drafts or temperatures below 55degrees-60degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees-15.6degrees Celsius). Hot temperatures cause the leaves to curl.","High humidity is a must! A Calathea plant gets brown leaf edges when the air is too dry. Humidity can be increased by placing your plant on a tray of wet pebbles (be sure the pot is on the pebbles and not in the water), setting a humidifier close by, or by grouping plants together to create a greenhouse effect.","The leaves of a Calathea are more beautiful than many of the flowers on other indoor plants. With over 300 varieties of Calathea, some types such as Calathea Crocata, White Ice, and Brazilian have lovely flowers as well as spectacular leaves.","Spider Mites, scale , Mealy Bugs and Aphids are houseplant pests that can be a problem.","The high humidity that a Calathea plant needs also encourages bacterial and fungal diseases which usually manifest themselves as leaf lesions.","Use a good light porous indoor potting soil that retains water but still drains quickly. African Violet soil works well.","A Calathea rarely needs repotting.","Cut off brown or crispy Calathea leaves as soon as they appear.","Calatheas plants are propagated by plant division but it is a little difficult.","Calatheas are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"69","Calathea Plant","CALATHEA ORNATA LINEATA","A calathea plant requires bright indirect light but no direct sun. Direct sun burns the leaves and causes the vibrant colors to fade.","The leaves of calathea plants are easily damaged by the quality of the water you use. Hard water or soft water, water with a high chemical content (fluorine, chlorine, or salt), water that has passed through a softener, or water of poor quality causes leaf tip burn. Use distilled water, rain water, or allow your tap water to sit out over night before using it. Calathea plants like moist but not soggy, soil at all times; never let the plant sit in water. Allow the top 2-3” of the soil to dry out before watering.","Fertilize monthly in the spring, summer, and fall with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never feed a calathea or any houseplant, if it is not actively growing.","Calathea plants prefer temperatures between 65degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-27.7degrees Celsius) , and don't do well in cold drafts or temperatures below 55degrees-60degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees-15.6degrees Celsius). The leaves of a calathea plant curl when the temperature is too warm.","Calathea plants need high humidity and when the air is too dry they develop brown leaf edges. Increase the humidity by placing the plant on a tray of wet pebbles (be sure the container is on the pebbles and not in the water), setting a humidifier near-by, or by grouping plants together to create a mini-greenhouse effect.","Calathea plant leaves are more beautiful than many flowers. With hundreds of calathea varieties available, some, such as Calathea crocata, White Ice, and Brazilian have gorgeous flowers as well as spectacular leaves.","Spider mites, Aphids , mealy bug, and scale","Calathea plants require high humidity and this encourages bacterial and fungal diseases which appear as leaf lesions.","Grow well in a light, porous, indoor potting soil that retains water but still drains quickly; an African Violet soil mixture is a good choice.","Calathea plants rarely need re-potting.","The only pruning a calathea needs is the removal of brown or crispy leaves.","Calathea plants are difficult to propagate; if you want to try, plant division is the best method.","Calathea are non- poisonous plants."
"70","Calla Lily Plant","ZANTEDESCHIA AETHIOPICA","Calla Lilies require at least six hours a day of very bright indirect light . Avoid direct sun, especially during the middle of the day, since it will burn the leaves and flowers.","These plants like moist soil at all times. Calla Lilies are not drought resistant and should never be allowed to totally dry out. Keep the soil moist but not soggy. Never allow a Calla Lily to sit in water for more than 15 minutes.","Fertilize an indoor Calla Lily every two weeks when the plant is flowering with a liquid plant food low in nitrogen. When the plant is producing only leaves and no flowers, fertilize monthly. Always dilute the plant food to 1/2 the recommended strength. If your Calla Lily is planted outside, use a granular plant food instead of a liquid fertilizer.","Room temperatures should be between 50degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees-24degrees Celsius) for optimal growth. Keep Calla Lilies away from heating and air conditioning vents. If planted outdoors, be sure to dig up the Calla Lily bulbs and bring them inside before temperatures dip below freezing.","Calla Lilies do well in average humidity.","The flowers of a Calla Lily are really spaths similar to those of a Peace Lily but much more impressive. The plant usually blooms for about six weeks during the late spring and early summer. Keeping the plant root- bound encourages more flowers. Calla Lilies may be forced to bloom at any time indoors. The long lasting cut flowers are perfect in bouquets and flower arrangements.","Examine a Calla Lily frequently for signs of scale or Aphids .","Calla Lilies are susceptible to various viruses and bacterial infections, especially rhizome rot and gray mold . These problems become evident when leaves and stems start to turn yellow before the plant is normally entering its dormant phase.","Use a good peat moss based potting soil that is well aerated and drains quickly. You can add builder's sand or perlite if the soil seems too heavy and clay-like.","Bulbs can be removed from their pots and stored in a cool dark location during their yearly dormant period. After 2-3 months of rest, plant the Calla Lily rhizomes (bulbs) in a clean pot with fresh rich soil. Use deep pots for Calla Lily bulbs, planting one bulb in a five-or six-inch pot, or two or three bulbs in an eight-inch pot. Plant the Calla Lily rhizomes (bulbs) deep enough so that they are covered by at least twice the height of the bulb. Calla Lilies usually bloom about 60 days after the bulbs are planted.","Calla Lilies only need to be pruned when they are entering their dormant or resting phase.","Callas Lilies can be propagated by division and seeds. The easiest method is to simply divide the rhizomes in the early spring and plant a single rhizome (bulb) in a deep six inch pot. Wait until the plant has started to produce new green leaves before going back to a regular fertilization program.","A Calla Lily is a very poisonous houseplant with a #3 toxicity level . Please keep it away from small children and pets. This plant contains high level s of calcium oxalate and ingestion may cause severe burning and swelling of the mouth, throat, lips, and tongue. Stomach distress and diarrhea can also occur."
"81","Cast Iron Plant","ASPIDISTRA","A Cast Iron plant grows in any low-light to bright filtered light area. When the light is too bright, the older leaves turn brown.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. The lower the light the less often a Cast Iron plant needs to be watered. In very low light , this plant may need water only every 2-3 weeks.","Feed monthly with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength when the plant is actively growing.","A Cast Iron plant does well in temperatures between 50degrees Fahrenheit-75degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius-23.9degrees Celsius). This plant can even survive in 45degrees Fahrenheit(7.2degrees Celsius).","Regular household humidity","Although a Cast Iron plant is a member of the lily family, its flowers are very small and inconsequential. The flowers appear near the surface of the soil and are often hidden by the leaves. The purple/brown colored flowers are about an inch long and after they die, a dark red berry may appear.","A Cast Iron plant is susceptible to Mealy Bugs and spider mites. Because of the simple leaf structure, pests are easily treated. Read more about these pests and how to treat the in the Glossary of the website.","Provide good air circulation and keep the leaves dry to prevent Leaf Spot Disease caused by fungal and bacterial infections. Read more about Leaf Spot Disease and how to recognize and treat it in the Glossary of the website.","Use a rich organic indoor potting soil such as an African Violet mix.","","A Cast Iron plant rarely needs to be pruned.","Cast Iron plants are propagated by plant division . Read more about plant propagation techniques in the Glossary.","Non- poisonous houseplant."
"82","Cat Palm","CHAMAEDOREA CATARACTARUM","Cat Palms need bright, indirect light but no direct sun.","These plants like moist but not soggy soil at all times. Fronds turn yellow if the soil gets too dry. Salty water or water containing chemicals such as fluoride causes leaf tip burn. Over- watering causes entire fronds to turn brown.","Less rather than more plant food is always better with palms. Feed a Cat Palm monthly in the spring and summer with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. fertilizer once or twice during winter and fall.","Palms like heat, but too much dry heat causes leaf damage. Avoid placing palms in drafts or in front of heaters or air conditioners. Cat Palms prefer 70degrees- 80degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees-26.7degrees Celsius) during the day and no lower than 45degrees Fahrenheit(7.2degrees Celsius) at night.","Lack of humidity is another reason Cat Palms develop brown tips. Ideally the room should have about 55% humidity, but this is rarely the case in our homes. You can place a humidifier in the room or place the palm on a wet gravel tray to increase the humidity; just be sure the plant sits on the gravel and not in the water.","","Spider mites, scale , Mealy Bugs , and ants can all be a problem. Read more about these pests and how to treat them in the Glossary of the website.","Helminthosporium, or Leaf Spot is a fungal disease that affects the leaves of a Cat palm. It appears as a reddish-brown lesion between 1/8-1/4"" in length.","A Cat Palm requires a loose potting soil that drains quickly. If your soil is heavy and clay-like, try adding some peat moss or sand.","Palms like to be root- bound. Do not re-pot a Cat Palm until the roots have filled the existing container. Pots must have drip holes in the bottom.","Cut off yellow or brown fronds quickly. Brown leaf tips can be trimmed with a wet scissors. Using a wet scissors usually prevents the browning or yellowing from spreading up the frond.","Palms are propagated by seeds. This is not an easy procedure and is best left to the professionals.","Cat Palms are non- poisonous"
"83","China Doll Plant","RADERMACHERA SINICA","A China Doll Plant requires very bright light .","China Doll plants want to be kept on the dry side. Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. The foliage may even turn a pale green when a China Doll plant needs water. Water around the entire soil surface so water reaches all of the roots.","Feed a China Doll plant monthly in the spring and summer when it is actively growing and every other month in the fall and winter with a balanced fertilizer at 1/2 the recommended strength.","A China Doll Plant does well in temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (18degrees-24degrees Celsius). Keep China Doll Plants away from drafts and cold windowsills or the leaves fall off.","China Doll Plants grow well in basic household humidity.","A China Doll Plant gets flowers when grown as an outdoor plant, but not when grown indoors.","Spider Mites, Aphids , and Mealy Bugs are attracted to China Doll plants. Because of its many leaves, it is difficult to get rid of houseplant pests on a China Doll plant. Check for insects every week as a precaution.","China Doll plants are prone to fungal infections that can cause the houseplant disease called Leaf Spot. Providing good air circulation and keeping the leaves dry helps prevent Leaf Spot Disease .","Use a rich well-aerated soil that drains quickly for a China Doll plant. Add sand or perlite to loosen the soil if necessary.","","Keep a China Doll plant well-pruned at all times, otherwise the plant becomes leggy, thin, and unsightly. When pruning a China Doll plant, always allow a few leaves to remain on each stem to produce food for the roots.","China Doll houseplants are propagated using Stem Cuttings .","A China Doll plant is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"84","Chinese Evergreen Plant","AGLAONEMA","Chinese Evergreen plants are probably the only indoor plant with large, colorful, variegated leaves that can live in low-light conditions. If placed in medium light, these plants grow more quickly.","Allow the top 25-30% of the soil to dry out before watering. When the soil of a Chinese Evergreen plant is too wet, the stems become mushy and die. When the soil gets too dry or too wet, yellow leaves develop.","Chinese Evergreen plants need very little plant food. Feed every other month with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength.","Temperatures below 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees C) may damage the leaves; keep a Chinese Evergreen plant away from cold winter drafts and air conditioners.","Chinese Evergreen plants do well in regular household humidity or higher.","Remove Chinese Evergreen flowers as soon as they appear. The flowers are not very attractive and use energy that the plant needs to produce its beautiful leaves.","Mealy Bugs , scale , and Aphids - The "" green solution "", sprayed on the entire plant, usually solves pest problems. (recipe for green solution in the Glossary)","In high humidity, the large leaves of a Chinese Evergreen plant may develop bacterial diseases such as Leaf Spot.","Use a well-aerated houseplant potting mix that drains quickly.","Keep a Chinese Evergreen a little root-bound in a small pot so that the soil can dry out quickly.","If a Chinese Evergreen plant becomes thin and leggy, prune the stems back to where they start to bend. The plant will branch out all along the length of the remaining stem.","Stem Cuttings and plant division .","Chinese Evergreen plants are poisonous with a #2 toxicity level because of the calcium oxalate crystals in the plant. Adverse reactions include: skin irritations after contact with the sap, irritation of mouth, lips, throat, and tongue if leaves are eaten."
"85","Chinese Evergreen Plant - Amelia","AGLAONEMA","Chinese Evergreen plants are one of the few houseplants with light green and gray in the leaves that can grow in low light . The newer varieties that have bright red, pink, yellow, and orange in the leaves require medium to bright light . Never place a Chinese Evergreen in the direct sun.","Allow the top 25-30% of the soil to dry out before watering. When the soil stays too wet for a long period of time, the stalks rot and die. If the soil gets too dry or too wet, yellow leaves develop.","Chinese Evergreen houseplants do not need much fertilizer . Feed every other month with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength when the plant is actively growing.","Temperatures below 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius) can damage the leaves of Chinese Evergreen houseplants. Keep these plants out of cold winter drafts and away from air conditioners.","Chinese Evergreen plants prefer regular household humidity or higher if possible.","If your Chinese Evergreen produces flowers, I recommend immediately cutting them off. The flowers are not very attractive and use energy that the plant needs to produce its beautiful leaves.","A Chinese Evergreen plant is susceptible to Mealy Bugs , scale , and Aphids . The "" green solution "" (recipe in Glossary of the website), sprayed on the entire plant usually solves the problem.","In high humidity, the large leaves of a Chinese Evergreen plant may develop bacterial diseases such as Leaf Spot Disease .","The best soil is a basic, well-aerated houseplant potting soil that drains quickly.","Keep a Chinese Evergreen plant in a small pot so the soil can dry out quickly and the roots are not constantly wet. This helps prevent root rot.","If a Chinese Evergreen plant becomes thin and leggy, prune the stems a few inches above the soil line. The plant will send out new growth at the bottom of the stem and along the length of the stem.","Chinese Evergreen plants are propagated using Stem Cuttings and plant division .","Chinese Evergreen plants are poisonous with a #2 toxicity level due to the calcium oxalate crystals in the plant. Adverse reactions after contact with the sap include: skin irritations, irritation of mouth, lips, throat, and tongue if the leaves are eaten."
"86","Christmas Cactus Plant","SCHLUMBERGERA BRIDGESII","Place a Christmas cactus in bright indirect light but never direct sun. Christmas cactus can live in medium or low light , but flower buds may drop off or never form at all.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. Buds fall off if the soil is too dry. Over-watering a Christmas cactus causes root rot. Reduce water after a Christmas Cactus has finished blooming. Start watering again normally once the plant starts to produce new leaves.","Feed every two weeks in the spring and summer with a liquid indoor plant food diluted tc 1/2 the recommended strength. Never feed a Christmas Cactus after October 1st.","The correct temperature is important if you want a Christmas Cactus to produce flowers. To set flower buds, the plant needs cool temperatures of 60-65degrees Fahrenheit (16-18degrees Celsius) during the day and even cooler temperatures of 45degrees-55degrees Fahrenheit (7degrees-13degrees Celsius) at night. Once buds have developed, Christmas Cactus like warm temperatures of 70degrees Fahrenheit-75degrees Fahrenheit (21degrees Celsius-24degrees Celsius) during the day and about 10degrees Fahrenheit (-12.2degrees Celsius) cooler at night. Cool temperatures between 65degrees Fahrenheit-70degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees Celsius-21.2degrees Celsius) help Christmas cactus flowers last longer.","Christmas cactus plants like moderate household humidity.","Blooms develop when days are short and temperatures are low. Starting in early fall, place a Christmas cactus in total darkness 12 hours a day. Keeping a Christmas cactus plant in a cool area, 60degrees Fahrenheit-65degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees Celsius-18.3degrees Celsius) helps the flowers form by Christmas.","Christmas Cactus pests are Mealy Bugs and scale . When treating plant pest problems, avoid getting any sprays on the flowers.","Christmas cactus with necrotic spot virus get spotted, yellow or wilted leaves and stems. Over-watering causes bacterial root rot.","Use a rich acidic soil that drains well. Christmas Cactus love leftover tea.","Christmas cactus grow better and bloom more when they are slightly root-bound in smaller pots. If a Christmas cactus needs to be re-potted, usually only every few years, wait until it has finished flowering in the spring. Never re-pot a Christmas cactus when it is in bloom.","Pruning helps the plant become a full bushy and produce more blooms during the holiday season. The best time to prune a Christmas cactus is about a month after it has finished blooming. This brief rest encourages the Christmas Cactus to produce new growth and branch out. You should never prune a Christmas Cactus once summer has begun.","A Christmas cactus is easily propagated using Stem Cuttings during the spring. Use a segment that has at least three segments, taken from a healthy stem. Allow the Stem Cuttings to dry out for a few hours before planting them to avoid stem rot.","Christmas cactus are non- poisonous plants."
"87","Chrysanthemum Plant","CHRYSANTHEMUM","Place in medium light and away from heating vents, air conditioners, and direct sun to keep blooms lasting longer.","Allow the top few inches of soil to dry out slightly before you water. Green leaves become soft and droopy when the soil is dry.","Indoor mums do not need to be fertilized because they only last about six weeks.","Cool temperatures help the blooms on a Chrysanthemum last longer and high temperatures cause the blooms to quickly fade. 70degrees Fahrenheit (21degrees Celsius) during the day and not below 60degrees F (15.5degrees Celsius) at night are the best temperatures for a Mum plant.","Mums last longer and grow better in high humidity but will do fine in basic household humidity.","There are two different kinds of Chrysanthemum plants, florist Mums and winter hardy fall Mums. Florist Mums don’t do well when planted outside; you can try but don't blame yourself if they die. If you've been enjoying a winter hardy Mum indoors, once the blooms die you can cut the plant back to 4”-5” above the soil line and plant it outside. It is almost impossible to get a Mum to bloom again indoors.","Aphids and thrip s.","","Use a rich fast-draining slightly acidic soil.","Potted Chrysanthemum plants usually come in 4"" and 6"" pots.","Remove flowers as soon as they start to fade or die. Prune a Chrysanthemum plant that has been growing indoors back to a few inches above the soil line before trying to plant it outdoors.","After a florist Mum has finished blooming it should be thrown out. Once a garden Mum has finished blooming indoors, it can be planted outdoors where it will grow and spread year after year.","Chrysanthemums are slightly poisonous with a #1 toxicity level . They are toxic to dogs, cats, and horses. Mums contain Sesquiterpene, lactones, pyrethrins and other potential irritants that can cause vomiting, diarrhea, hypersalivation, incoordination, and skin problems."
"88","Cineraria Plant","PERICALLIS CRUENTA","Cineraria Plants need very bright indirect light but cool temperatures. Place a Cineraria Plant near a north or east-facing window. Light from south & west-facing windows is too hot and causes the flowers on a Cineraria Plant to fade quickly.","Keep a Cineraria Plant moist but never soggy. Always allow the top inch or two of soil in a Cineraria Plantto dry out before watering. Cineraria Plants can sit in the excess water for 15 minutes then be sure to empty the saucer. The more blooms a Cineraria Plant has, the more water it needs.","Feed a Cineraria Plant in April with a water-soluble plant food high in phosphorous at 1/2 the recommended strength.","A Cineraria plant does well in temperatures between 45-55 degrees at night and 55-65 degrees during the day. If it is too warm, the flowers of a Cineraria Plant quickly die.","Cineraria Plants adapt well to basic household humidity.","Beautiful flowers on a Cineraria Plant last about a month in cool temperatures. Cineraria Plants bloom better when root bound in smaller pots.","When a Cineraria Plant is stressed because of inadequate light, too much heat, or very dry air it becomes susceptible to Aphids and whiteflies .","Prevent mold from developing on your Cineraria Plant by quickly removing dead leaves and flowers.","Cineraria plants do well in a quick-draining, well-aerated, loose potting soil that has a lot of peat moss in it.","Cineraria plants are usually found in 4"" and 6"" pots.","Cut dead leaves and flowers off of a Cineraria plant to prevent mold from developing.","Seeds are the best way to propagate a Cineraria Plant.","A Cineraria is a poisonous house plant with a #2 toxicity level and should be kept away from small children and pets."
"89","Clivia Plant","CLIVIA MINIATA","A Clivia plant requires bright, indirect light but no direct sun. Direct sun scorches the leaves and ruins the beautiful flowers. During the summer, a Clivia loves to go outside as long as you keep it in the shade.","Water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Clivia plants prefer to be on the dry side. Pale green or orange lesions on the leaves indicate you are over-watering.","Once a Clivia plant has finished blooming, usually in the early summer, feed monthly with a balanced indoor plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize during the 4-6 weeks in the winter when the plant is resting. After the plant has rested, feed with a fertilizer high in potassium to encourage the plant to flower.","A Clivia Plant prefers temperatures between 65degrees-70degrees F (18.3degrees-21.1degrees C) during the spring and early fall. From November to February, when your Clivia plant is ""resting"" the temperature should be 50degrees-55degrees F (10degrees-12.8degrees Celsius). A Clivia plant does not do well in temperatures below 50degrees F (10degrees Celsius).","Average household humidity is adequate for a Clivia.","Keep a Clivia plant root-bound in a small pot to help it bloom more often. Allowing a Clivia plant to rest for about 6 weeks during the winter, in a cool area, helps it flower the following year. After this resting period, move the plant back into a bright, warm area and feed with a fertilizer high in potassium diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Plant insects rarely bother Clivia plants. If Mealy Bugs do appear, wipe them off with a Qtip dipped in alcohol.","Bacterial and viral problems such as root rot, damping-off, rust, leaf spots and bacterial rot.","Use a fast -draining soil that has a lot of peat moss and some sand in it to prevent the roots of your Clivia plant from staying too wet.","A Clivia plant blooms best when it is root-bound in a small pot. Repot every three or four years. If the plant seems very top- heavy and is falling over, use a tall heavy pot to provide stability.","Clivia plants need little or no pruning. Cut off any dying flowers at the base of their stalk as soon as they appear.","These plants are easily propagated by plant division and offsets . Don't be concerned if the Clivia offsets have no roots, roots will develop after a few weeks.","A Clivia plant is a very poisonous houseplant with a #3 toxicity level ."
"90","Coffee Plant","C.ARABICA","Coffee Plants need bright indirect light from an east or west facing window. Avoid direct sunlight.","Water a Coffee Plant when the top 1""-2"" of soil has dried out. These plants are not drought resistant and can suffer permanent damage if the soil totally dries out. Leaves fall off if the plant is over or under watered.","A Coffee Plant really only needs to be fed twice a year, once in March and again in late summer. Use a well balanced plant food (10-10-10) or fish emulsion","These plants prefer constant temperatures between 60 degrees and 75 degrees. Coffee Plants can suffer damage if the temperature goes below 42 degrees or above 78 degrees.","A Coffee Plant needs high humidity so consider placing a small humidifier near it or setting it on a wet pebble tray.","As a Coffee Plant matures it produces small white fragrant blooms, followed by red berries. Inside the red berries are the seeds or beans that can be roasted and ground into coffee.","Keep an eye out for spider mites, scale , Mealy Bugs , and whitefly","These plants require high humidity which makes them susceptible to fungal diseases such as leaf spot and leaf rust.","Use a porous light weight acidic soil that also contains some peat moss or humus.","Repot Coffee plants in the spring if they have outgrown their current pot.","Aggressively cut back straggly new growth to keep the plant short and bushy.","Coffee Plants are best propagated using fresh seeds found inside the bright red berries. Stem Cuttings have very little success.","Although Coffee Plants are not toxic to humans, the caffeine in the berries can adversely affect small children, cats, and dogs causing hyper-activity, diarrhea, and vomiting."
"101","Coleus Plant","SOLENOSTEMON","Very bright light is a must; coleus plants can even gradually get used to a few hours of direct sun. Fluorescent grow lights help make the leaf colors even more spectacular.","A coleus a a fast growing plant and dries out more quickly than many other indoor plants. Allow the top inch or two of soil to dry out before watering. Frequent wilting due to under-watering causes the leaves to develop crispy edges, dull colors, and brown spots. Over-watering results in root rot.","The best fertilizer for a coleus plant is fish emulsion. If fish emulsion is not available, feed monthly with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","A coleus plant likes warm temperatures between 70degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees-29.4degrees Celsius) though it can survive in temperatures as low as 55degrees Fahrenheit (12degrees Celsius).","High humidity is preferable, but a coleus still does well in homes and offices.","It's recommended that you pinch off the small flowers as soon as they appear to encourage the beautiful leaves to grow.","Mealy Bugs, Aphids, and whitefly are plant pests attracted to a coleus. Check your plant weekly so these pests don't get a foothold on too many of the leaves. Washing a coleus plant frequently with warm water helps keep insects away. Once infested, spray your coleus with the ""green solution"" and place yellow sticky insect cards on the soil to trap flying insects.","Because a coleus plant likes high humidity, powdery mildew can be a disease problem.","Use a quick draining well-aerated potting soil; add sand or perlite if the soil is too heavy.","Coleus are very fast growing plants so be sure to check the roots every few months to see if the plant has out grown its container. Always move the plant to the next size pot and nothing larger to prevent the soil from staying wet too long and causing root rot.","Aggressively prune the the leaf tips to keep the plant bushy and prevent if from becoming leggy.","A coleus is easily propagated from Stem Cuttings .","Although these plants are listed as non- poisonous , they are not considered totally safe. I'd keep a coleus away from pets and small children."
"102","Croton Plant","CODIAEUM VARIEGATUM","Croton houseplants need bright light to maintain their colorful leaves. If there is insufficient light, new leaves are green not predominantly yellow, red, or orange. Too much direct sun causes phototoridation, a condition that makes Croton leaves gray and dull looking.","Allow the top 25%-30% of the soil to dry out before watering. Crunchy leaves indicate over-watering. Leaves become soft and droop when your plant needs water. When a croton is severely over or under-watered leaves drop off.","Fertilize a croton monthly in the spring and fall and every two weeks in the summer with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. If your Croton is in a bright sunny spot, but the new leaves are coming in green, reduce the amount of plant food. Too much fertilizer also causes the leaves to curl.","Croton Plants prefer warm temperatures between 60degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-26.7degrees Celsius).","High humidity is a plus.","The flowers on a croton houseplant are small and inconsequential. I'd recommend removing them as soon as they appear so they don't drain the plant's energy and hinder leaf development.","Crotons are susceptible to Mealy Bugs , scale , and Fungus Gnats but it is spider mites that do the most damage. Because croton houseplants have multi-colored leaves, it is often difficult to see the spider mites. These plant pests suck the color from the leaves and ruin the plant. Thoroughly spray your Croton with the "" green solution "" (recipe in the Glossary) once a month as a preventative measure. See a picture of each of these insects in the Glossary.","Fungal and bacteria infections may occur because of the humid environment and moist soil crotons require. The most common diseases to look out for are powdery mildew and Leaf Spot Disease . See a picture and read more about these diseases in the Glossary.","Use a rich potting soil for your croton plants. The soil should be loose and drain well but still retain water.","Re-pot a croton to the next size pot when its roots have filled the existing container. Be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of the pot so excess water can drain out.","Trim the stem tips to encourage new growth and keep the plant bushy and full.","Stem Cuttings and air layering are the best way to propagate crotons. Individual leaves can be rooted and used in dish gardens. You can read more about propagation techniques in the Glossary of the website.","Crotons are very poisonous with a #3 toxicity level ."
"103","Crown of Thorns Plant","EUPHORBIA MILII","A Crown of Thorns plant needs as much bright indirect light as you can provide, but no direct sun.","When a Crown of Thorns plant is actively growing, usually from late spring to early fall, water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Reduce the amount of water when a Crown of Thorns plant is not producing new leaves and flowers, but never allow the soil to totally dry out. A Crown of Thorns plant can get severe root damage if the soil gets too dry.","Feed monthly when it is actively growing with a water-soluble fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Use a plant food low in nitrogen and high in phosphorous to limit leaf growth and encourage blooms on a Crown of Thorns plant.","A Crown of Thorns plant likes to be warm and does well in temperatures between 60degrees- 95degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-35degrees Celsius). A Crown of Thorns plant may lose leaves if the temperature goes below 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius).","A Crown of Thorns plant is a desert Succulent Plant so average to low humidity is sufficient.","In the early spring through late summer, a Crown of Thorns plant produces colorful bracts in red, yellow, and pink surrounding tiny flowers . Under the right conditions, a Crown of Thorns plant will bloom all year.","A Crown of Thorns plant is very pest resistant. Mealy Bugs and Aphids are the main plant pests to keep an eye out for.","Plant mildew and fungus are two plant diseases that can develop if a Crown of Thorns plant is kept too moist or if the humidity is too high. Plant diseases often occur if the room is cool and the light inadequate; so always provide good air circulation and warm temperatures.","Use a sandy, well-drained soil that is 2/3 cactus or succulent potting soil and 1/3 perlite or coarse sand. The soil should drain quickly to prevent root-rot.","A Crown of Thorns plant needs re-potting about every two or three years.","You can prune and shape a Crown of Thorns plant after it has finished blooming.","Propagate in the spring and early summer using 3""- 4"" stem tip cuttings. Be sure to wear gloves to protect your hands from the latex that flows from any cuts on the stem. Dip the Crown of Thorns stem tip cuttings in cold water and spray the trimmed areas on the mother plant with cold water to stop the oozing milky sap. Allow Crown of Thorns plant clippings to dry out for a few days and form a callus on the cut end before planting them.","A Crown of Thorns is a poisonous houseplant with a level #2 toxicity. Broken or damaged leaves and stems ooze a milky latex substance that may cause blistering and pain if it gets on any open cuts. If a child or pet eats any part of a Crown of Thorns plant, severe mouth irritation, gastro- intestinal problems, and even hemorrhage can occur."
"104","Ctenanthe Plant","","Ctenanthes like bright indirect light . If there is insufficient light, new leaves appear solid green rather than patterned with attractive colors. If there is too much light, the colors in the leaves fade.","Keep the soil evenly moist but never soggy. Ctenanthes do not like to dry out, and do not like cold or hard water.","Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer diluting the plant food at 1/2 the recommended strength. Fertilize every other month in the fall and winter. Never feed a Ctenanthe immediately after repotting, wait at least 6 weeks.","Ctenanthes like warm consistent temperatures and will not tolerate temperatures below 60degrees Fahrenheit (15degrees Celsius).","High humidity is very important. If the air is dry, place your Ctenanthe on a pebble tray filled with water. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","The white or yellow flowers are small and inconsequential in comparison to the beautiful leaves. The flowers have 3 sepals, 3 petals, and form a short funnel.","Spider mite and mealy bug are the pests to look out for.","botrytis , a fungal disease, can occur because of the high humidity these plants require.","Use a good all purpose potting mix that drains well but still retains moisture.","Re-pot once a year or every other year depending upon how quickly the plant roots fill the container.","A Ctenanthe rarely needs pruning, just remove any dead growth.","Ctenanthe plants are easily propagated using the offsets that develop into bushy clumps around the base of the plant. When propagating, it is important to use the same type of soil as was used for the original plant. Stem Cuttings is another propagation choice. Keep the new plants warm and the soil moist until established.","A Ctenanthe plant is slightly poisonous , although it is often listed as non-toxic. It may cause individual allergic reactions. The ASPCA states that it is not poisonous to dogs and cats."
"105","Cyclamen Plant","CYCLAMEN PERSICUM","During the fall and winter, indoor cyclamen plants need bright, indirect light. When your cyclamen become dormant sometime in the spring, put it in a darker, cooler area until it starts to produce new leaves in the fall.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. Cyclamen plants should always be watered from the bottom so they can absorb the water through the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Never water at the very center of the plant. Once your cyclamen starts to droop a little, place it in a deep saucer of water for 10 minutes. Allow the excess water in the soil to drain before returning the plant to its decorative container. Cyclamen leaves do not like to be wet, so keep them dry at all times.","Unlike most house plants, a cyclamen likes to be fed in the fall and winter. Feed monthly during these seasons when the plant is actively growing with a water-soluble fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Indoors cylamen grow faster and bloom more often in cool temperatures between 55degrees-65degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees-18.3degrees Celsius). When cyclamen plants are dormant, during the spring and summer, place them in an area where the temperature is never below 45degrees Fahrenheit (7.2degrees Celsius) or above 60degrees F (15.5degrees Celsius). Avoid placing them in drafts or in front of heaters.","Cyclamen prefer high humidity. If the air in your home is very dry, place your plant on a tray of wet pebbles. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. You can also place a small humidifier near the plant.","Remove dead flowers as soon as they appear. I've found that stressing a cyclamen by allowing it to droop a little before watering encourages it to bloom more often.","The main insects to look out for are spider mites. You can see a picture of spider mites and learn how to treat them in the Glossary of the website.","Cyclamen may develop gray mold and botrytis because of the high humidity they prefer. Never misting and keeping the leaves dry at all times helps prevent plant diseases. You can see what both of these diseases look like and how to treat them in the Glossary of the website.","Use a rich potting soil that drains well.","If your cyclamen has out-grown its container, re-pot during the summer when the plant is dormant. The new container should be no more than a few inches larger than the old one and have drip holes in the bottom..","Remove dead flowers and leaves as soon as they appear.","Propagate a cyclamen by dividing their plant tubers. Be sure each tuber has a ""growing eye"" and roots before planting them.","Cyclamen are very poisonous plants with a #3 toxicity level . These plants contain saponins and all parts of the plant, especially the tubers and roots, can cause severe reactions if ingested. Cyclamen are especially harmful to dogs and cats."
"106","Desert Rose Plant","ADENIUM OBESUM","A Desert Rose plant requires bright indirect light .","The fat bulbous base of a Desert Rose stores water, so always allow the soil to just about dry out before watering. If the soil becomes excessively dry, the plant becomes dormant; once you give the plant a little water, it quickly starts growing again.","Feed a Desert Rose plant with a fertilizer for flowering plants. The plant food should be lower in nitrogen and higher in phosphorous (10/20/10). Feed monthly from late spring until early fall. Always dilute your plant food to one half the recommended strength.","A Desert Rose likes very warm temperatures. Keep the room above 60degrees and avoid placing this plant near air conditioners or cold drafts.","Basic household humidity for these succulent s is perfect.","Flowering can occur throughout the year but is more prolific in the spring and fall. Older plants that are well cared for produce the most blooms. Flowers may be red, white, pink, or rose colored.","Aphids, spider mites, and mealy bug can all be a problem. Spray my “green solution,” a mixture of 50% alcohol, 50% water, a few tablespoons of liquid soap, and a few tablespoons of mineral oil on the entire plant but avoid the flowers.","Most fungal or bacterial diseases that affect a Desert Rose, such as crown, root, and stem rot are the result of over- watering. Always allow the soil to dry out. It's also important to keep water off the leaves, flowers, and stems.","Use a loose, fast draining soil mixture that won't become heavy and clay-like. Add hard sand to your usual potting soil or buy a mixture made specifically for cacti and Succulent Plants.","These plants like being root-bound in small pots.","You can prune a Desert Rose any time during the year. Flowers develop on the new growth so pruning well before the plant blooms encourages more branching and more flowers.","The best way to propagate a Desert Rose is from seeds, but this is rarely possible an indoor plant. You can try using Stem Cuttings but the new plants often lack the trunks with fat bases that make a Desert Rose Plant so interesting.","A Desert Rose plant is a poisonous houseplant with a #2 Toxicity level ."
"107","Dieffenbachia Plant","DIEFFENBACHIA COMPACTA","Dieffenbachia plants require medium to bright indirect light . Direct sun burns the leaves and too much bright light causes the vibrant leaf color to fade. When an indoor dieffenbachia does not get enough light, the new leaves are small and far apart on the stem.","Water well and then allow the top 2""-3"" of soil to dry out before watering again. Dieffenbachia plants do best when watered on a regular schedule. If the soil gets too dry, bottom leaves may turn yellow. If the plant is over- watered, stems rot and get mushy and bottom leaves die.","Fertilize only when the plant is actively producing new leaves. Most dieffenbachias need to be fed every two weeks in the summer and once a month in the spring and fall. Never fertilize in the winter. Excess plant food causes browning around the edges of the leaves.","Dieffenbachia plants prefer temperatures above 60degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees Celsius). Lower leaves turn yellow when exposed to cold drafts from doors, windows, or air conditioners.","High humidity is a plus, but a dieffenbachia still does well in basic household humidity.","Dieffenbachia develop rather non-descript spath-like flowers. I recommend cutting flowers off as soon as they appear because they slow leaf development.","Look out for spider mites and Mealy Bugs .","Humidity loving dieffenbachia plants are subject to bacterial leaf spot , Erwinia Blight, and other bacterial diseases that may develop in humid conditions.","The best soil for a dieffenbachia is a rich organic mixture that drains quickly.","A dieffenbachia likes to be a little pot-bound. Repot your plant in the spring if the roots have filled the existing pot. The new container should only be an inch or two wider than the old container.","Aggressively prune to keep a dieffenbachia bushy and prevent it from getting top heavy. Always wear long sleeve shirts and gloves when pruning to prevent the poisonous sap from getting on your skin, eyes, or mouth. Wash your tools thoroughly when finished.","air layering and Stem Cuttings are the best ways to propagate a dieffenbachia. You can read more about propagation methods in the Glossary of the website.","Dieffenbachias are extremely poisonous plants with a #4 toxicity level . If the sap gets on your skin, wash it off immediately. Seek medical advice if a child or pet ingests any part of a dieffenbachia plant."
"108","Donkey's Tail Plant","SEDUM MORGANIANUM","A Donkey's Tail plant needs at least four hours of sun or very bright light every day. If it gets insufficient light the new growth will be small, pale, and weak.","Succulent Plants need to dry out before you water and a Donkey's Tail plant is no exception. Water well and then do not water again until the soil has thoroughly dried out. Over-watering a Donkey's Tail plant or any Succulent Plant is the easiest way to kill it. The leaves of the plant should be flat and even a little wrinkled before you water. A Donkey's Tail plant takes even less water in the winter when it is “resting.”","Fertilize monthly from March through September. Always dilute the plant food to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize a Donkey's Tail plant during the winter when the plant is resting.","A Donkey's Tail plant grows best when the temperature is between 65degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-23.9degrees Celsius). During the winter, when a Donkey's Tail plant is resting, lower the temperature by 10degrees. Keep a Donkey's Tail plant out of drafts and away from cold doors & windows.","A Donkey's Tail plant does well in basic household humidity.","When allowed to rest in the winter in a cool area, a Donkey's Tail plant may produce star- shaped flowers in pink, red, or lavender.","Mealy Bugs are the main pests that attack a Donkey's Tail plant.","Root-rot due to over watering","The soil should be loose and fast draining; a cactus or succulent mix is a good choice.","These plants like to be root-bound in small pots.","If leaves on a stem of a Donkey's Tail plant fall off or are knocked off, remove the entire stem.","Use Stem Cuttings and leaf cuttings to propagate a Donkey's Tail plant. This plant is so easy to propagate, it almost propagates itself.","A Donkey's Tail plant is the common name for Sedum Morgiana and is non- poisonous houseplant. This plant should not be confused with Creeping Spurge or Myrtle Spurge. Myrtle Spurge is poisonous and care should be taken when handling it."
"109","Dracaena Compacta","D.FRAGRANS","A Dracaena compacta plant grows best in medium light. In low light area they grow very slowly or not at all, tend to lose bottom leaves more quickly, and are easily over-watered. Rotate dracaenas weekly so that they don't grow toward the light, become one sided, and lose their beautiful shape.","Like other indoor houseplants, a dracaena compacta uses less water in low light than in brighter light. Keep the plant on the dry side to prevent root rot and Leaf Spot Disease. Allow the top 3/4 of the soil to dry out before watering. In low light this could be two weeks or more. Compacta plants do better when watered on a regular schedule. Dark brown tips usually indicate the following: too much chlorine or fluoride in the water, water is too salty (never use water that has passed through a softener), or too much plant food. Muddy brown leaf tips on new growth means the plant needs more water.","Slow growing plants like the dracaena compacta, require very little fertilizer . Feed only twice a year, once in the spring and once in the summer, and be sure to dilute the plant food to 1/2 the recommended stength.","Dracaena compacta plants like warm room temperatures 60-75degrees Fahrenheit (16-24degrees Celsius). Cold winter drafts and heaters can damage the leaves.","Basic household or office humidity is fine.","Dracaenas rarely flower, when they do, I recommend immediately cutting off the flowers. Allowing the flowers to stay on the plant may distort the growth pattern of the plant and ruin its shape.","Mealy Bugs and scale can be a problem.","Leaf Spot Disease , caused by a fungus living in the soil, causes reddish brown spots on the new leaves. Over- watering causes root rot. The best way to prevent both of these problems is to let the soil dry out before watering the plant.","Use a good, loose houseplant soil that drains quickly.","Dracaena plants like to be root- bound in small pots. If you move the plant to a larger container (with drip holes in the bottom) remember it will take the soil longer to dry out.","Quickly remove dead or dying canes. Prune brown or yellow leaf tips with a wet scissors.","Dracaena Compacta plants are propagated using Stem Cuttings .","There is a lot of disagreement as to whether Dracaenas are Poisonous Houseplants . I give them a #1 toxicity level . Dracaenas may cause intestinal issues if eaten by a small child, dog, or cat."
"110","Dracaena Corn Plant","","A dracaena massangeana, also called a dracaena corn plant, can tolerate low light but grows faster and produces larger leaves in medium to bright indirect light . Unlike the low-light dracaena janet craig with its dark green leaves, the corn plant dracaena requires better light to maintain the pale yellow center stripe in the leaves.","Like all dracaenas, allow the top 50-75% of the soil to dry out before watering. A corn plant dracaena survives under-watering, but quickly dies from over-watering. If your water contains fluoride or chlorine, allow it sit out over-night before using it so the chemicals can dissipate. High concentrations of fluoride damage the leaves and cause brown leaf tips. Never use water that has passed through a softener; it is too salty and causes leaf damage.","Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never feed a dracaena during the winter and fertilize only once during the fall.","Corn plant dracaenas do well in temperatures between 65degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (18degrees-26.5degrees Celsius).","These plants prefer high humidity, but still grow well in regular household humidity.","A corn plant dracaena may develop large, heavily scented flowers. I recommend cutting the flowers off as soon as they appear. As long as the flowers remain, new leaves do not develop and the elegant shape of the plant is altered. The flowers also drip messy sap on floors and furniture.","Mealy Bugs and spider mites can be a problem. Keeping the large leaves clean and dust free helps prevent insect infestations.","Fusarium leaf spot and root rot due to over-watering are the main problems.","Use a loose, fast-draining, well-aerated soil. A dracaena can even be grown in lava rock mixed with soil.","All varieties of dracaena plants like to be root-bound in small pots. When the roots have filled the existing pot, move your dracaena to the NEXT size pot and nothing larger. Be sure there are drip holes in the bottom so excess water can escape.","Trim the leaves with a clean, wet scissors. Using a wet scissors prevents unsightly yellowing in the cut areas.","Propagate by Stem Cuttings or air layering . You can read about both of these propagation techniques in the Glossary of the website.","Corn plant dracaenas are slightly poisonous with a #1 toxicity leval."
"121","Dracaena Janet Craig","D. DEREMENSIS JANET CRAIG","Dracaena janet craig plants grow slowly in low light , but grow much faster in medium light. When the light is extremely low, new leaves are smaller and narrower. Placing a dracaena janet craig in the sun outside for even a few minutes, burns the leaves.","When in doubt, do not water! Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. The lower the light, the less often a dracaena needs water. Fluoride, chlorine, or salt in the water causes brown leaf tips and yellow spots on the leaves.","Dracaenas need very little plant food. Feed once or twice a year in the spring and summer with a balanced houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Too much fertilizer causes leaf tip burn.","Dracaena janet craig plants do not do well in temperatures below 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius) Cold winter drafts and blowing heaters damage the leaves.","Basic household humidity is sufficient for dracaenas to grow well and look good.","If the growing conditions are right, a dracaena janet craig may produce a 10""-12"" stalk with large fragrant white flowers. Although this is fun to see, the flowers often slows down leaf production, alter the shape of the plant, and may secrete a messy sticky sap that gets all over the plant and the floor. I recommend cutting the flower off as soon as it appears.","Mealy Bugs and scale can be a problem. Spray with the green solution (recipe in the Glossary) and then carefully wipe the leaves. This removes dust buildup as well as the plant pests.","Leaf Spot is the main plant disease problem.","Use a loose soil that drains quickly. In Hawaii, dracaenas are often grown in lava rock. If you purchase a dracaena in lava rock, remove at least 1/3 of the rock and replace it with potting soil.","These plants grow better when root-bound in small pots.","Thin or bare stemmed dracaenas should be pruned in the spring and early summer. Cut off the top part of a cane anywhere along the stalk; the plants produces new leaves directly below the cut. The pruned section can be used to start a new plant.","Dracaena cuttings root in water, but the preferred method is to root them in a potting soil using a 5""-8"" cuttings from the plant. Note which end of each cutting is the top and which is the bottom so you can plant them in the right direction. Allow the cane cuttings to sit out overnight so the cut ends can dry out before you plant them. Plant the cane cuttings in small pots of moist, very fine potting soil. Place the pots in indirect light. If the soil seems to get very dry, give the cane cuttings a small amount of water. In about 3-4 weeks the cuttings should root and new leaves begin to develop.","A dracaena janet craig is sometimes listed as a non- poisonous houseplant, however, some pets, especially cats and dogs, have experienced problems after eating the leaves. My advice, keep dracaenas away from your pets."
"122","Dracaena Lemon Lime","DRACAENA DEREMENSIS","Although a Dracaena lemon lime Plant can adapt to low light , it does better in medium to indirect bright light . Too much direct bright light causes the color in the leaves to fade. Too little light and the new leaves are narrower than the older leaves.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. If the soil is too wet or too dry the leaves develop brown tips. Always use non-fluoridated non chlorinated water for any type of dracaena plant. Dracaenas are very sensitive to chemicals in the water.","Dracaenas require very little fertilizer. Feed a monthly in spring and summer with a balanced liquid plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. It's not necessary to feed dracaenas in the fall or winter.","Provide warm temperatures between 70degrees-75degrees if possible.","Dracaenas like high humidity but do well in basic household humidity.","Although a dracaena lemon lime does bloom, it rarely flowers as a potted plant. White flowers may appear in summer if the plant gets bright indirect light but no direct sun.","Mealy Bugs and spider mites are the houseplant pests to look out for. Keeping the leaves clean and dust free helps prevent pest problems.","Fluoride toxicity causes long, tan to dark brown spots in the yellow stripes of dracaena lemon lime leaves. Fusarium Leaf Spot Disease produces reddish/ tan spots with wide, yellow halos on the new leaves.","Use a fast-draining well-aerated loose soil. Dracaenas can even be grown in soil mixed with lava rock.","A Dracaena lemon lime likes to be root-bound in small pots. Re-pot to the next size pot when the roots have filled the existing pot.","Cut brown leaf tips off with a wet scissors. Tall stalks with only a few leaves at the top, can be cut anywhere along the stalk. New growth appears below the cut area.","A dracaena lemon llme is propagated by Stem Cuttings .","The ASPCA considers a dracaena lemon lime a poisonous plant to dogs and cats."
"123","Dracaena Marginata","D. MARGINATA","Dracaena marginata plants prefer medium light, but survive in low light situations. Lower light slows down the growth rate and reduces the size of new leaves. Direct sun burns the leaves.","Over-watering causes root-rot and is the main reason a Dracaena marginata dies. Water well and don't water again until the top 50% of the soil is dry. In low light , this could take up to three weeks. Brown tips on the leaves indicate over-watering or too much fluoride or salt in the water. Never use water that has passed through a softener, it is too salty. If your household water has a lot of chemicals, allow it to sit out overnight before using it or use rain water or distilled water. This is a stalk plant, so it is common for the lower leaves to turn yellow and fall off if the plant is getting new leaves at the top. Numerous yellow leaves means the plant needs more water.","Dracaenas are slow-growing plants that do not require a large amount of fertilizer . Feed monthly in the spring and summer with a water-soluble, well-balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Do not feed a dracaena in the fall or winter.","These plants prefer temperatures between 70degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees- 26.7degrees Celsius).","Basic household humidity is fine.","","Dracaena marginata plants are very susceptible to spider mites, especially when temperatures are warm and the air is very dry. These pests are difficult to see until they have damaged the plant. Mealy Bugs are another pest problem; they leave small, sticky, cottony deposits that are easy to see. You can read more about spider mites and Mealy Bugs in the Glossary of the website.","Leaf Spot Disease and root-rot caused by over watering are the main disease problems.","Dracaena marginata plants grow well in a loose, quick-draining soil. These plants are from Hawaii and often arrive planted in lava rock. Remove 1/3 of the lava rock and replace it with a good potting mix.","Dracaena marginatas grow better when root-bound in small pots. Don't be in a rush to re-pot any dracaena plant.","If the canes become bare at the bottom, cut the cane back to where you would like to encourage new growth. Several new stems eventually emerge below the cut and your marginata looks even more interesting.","I like to use Stem Cuttings rooted in water for propagation. You can use the canes you removed during the pruning process. Cut the stem piece you cut off into 12"" sections. Mark which is the top and which is the bottom of each piece. Place the cuttings in a jar of water, bottom end in the water. Fill up the water as it is absorbed. Roots should start to develop at the bottom of each cutting within a few weeks. Leaves will develop along the stems. Once the stem sections are well rooted, you can plant them at the base of your original plant to make it look fuller or start new plants in small pots with drip holes in the bottom.","These plants are not considered poisonous to humans, but are extremely poisonous to dogs and cats with a #2 toxicity level ."
"124","Dracaena Reflexa","D. REFLEXA","A dracaena reflexa with solid dark green leaves does well in medium light. The Song of India and Song of Jamaica, with yellow and white stripes in their leaves, need bright indirect light . Direct sun burns the leaves of all varieties of dracaena reflexa.","Like all dracaenas, the reflexa likes to be kept on the dry side. Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. I always suggest keeping the plant a little root bound in a small pot so the soil can dry out quickly and the roots do not stay wet too long. When you do water, water well enough so that it comes out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Dracaenas are very sensitive to fluorine in the water. If you water has a lot of chemicals in it, allow the water to sit out for 24 hours before using it; alternatively you can use rain water or distilled water.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer when the plant is actively growing with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength.","Basic household temperatures between 65degrees-85degrees are ideal.","A reflexa prefers high humidity. Leaf tips may turn brown if the humidity is too low.","","A dracaena reflexa attracts Mealy Bugs , spider mites, and scale . Read more about these pests in the Glossary.","Fusarium leaf spot is the main disease that infects dracaenas. It causes leaf spots that are initially water-soaked and form on young leaves that are are kept wet. As the spots become larger, they turn reddish-brown or tan and frequently have a yellow margin.","Always use a loose, quick-draining soil for any dracaena; this helps prevent over-watering and root rot. Add sand to your regular potting mixture if the soil doesn't drain quickly enough.","Dracaenas like to be root-bound in small pots.","These plants love to be cut back.","You can use Stem Cuttings to propagate new plants.","A dracaena reflexa is considered non-toxic to humans but cases have been reported of cats suffering tremors after nibbling on a reflexa."
"125","Dracaena Reflexa Song of India","D. REFLEXA VARIEGATA","A Dracaena reflexa likes bright indirect light but no direct sun","Like all dracaenas, the reflexa likes to be kept on the dry side. Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. Over- watering, resulting in root rot, is the main reason this plant dies.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer when the plant is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength. Do not feed in the fall and winter.","65degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees Celsius) - 85degrees Fahrenheit (29.4degrees Celsius). Temperatures below 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius) can damage the leaves. Avoid cold drafts and heaters.","Does well in basic household humidity, but grows faster and leaves look better in higher humidity.","","scale , Mealy Bugs , spider mite: You can see a picture and read more about these insects in the Glossary of the of the website.","Dracaenas, especially when they are misted, may get fusarium Leaf Spot Disease . This fungal infection causes water-soaked leaf spots on young leaves. As the spots become larger, they turn reddish-brown or tan and frequently have a yellow margin.","Use a loose, quick-draining soil to prevent over-watering and root rot. If your regular soil seems heavy, add some sand.","Dracaenas like being root-bound in small pots. Move your plant to the next size pot once the roots have filled the existing container.","Dracaenas are stalk plants so it is natural for bottom leaves to turn yellow and drop off as long as you are getting new growth at the top of the plant. Pruning plant tips helps the plant stay bushy and full.","Use 3""-5"" stem tip cuttings. Allow cuttings to sit out overnight before planting several in a small pot of loose soil; this allows the cut end to dry out and helps prevent root rot.","A Dracaena reflexa is usually listed as a non-toxic plant, but cases have been reported of cats suffering tremors after eating some of the leaves."
"126","Dracaena Warnekii","D. DEREMENSIS WARNEKII","A Dracaena warnekii survives in low light , but grows faster and fuller in medium light. In low light , the new leaves may be smaller and narrower. Direct sun burns the leaves.","All dracaena plants like to be kept on the dry side. Water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Never allow the plant to sit in water. The lower the light level the less water a dracaena warnekii needs. All dracaenas are very sensitive to fluoride. If your household water is heavily chlorinated allow it to sit out over night, use water from an outside hose, use rain water or distilled water.","Dracaena plants do not require much fertilizer. Feed monthly in spring and summer with a balanced liquid fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. It's not necessary to feed dracaenas in the fall or winter.","Usual household temperatures between 65degrees- 80degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-26.7degrees Celsius). are fine for a Dracaena Warnekii. Keep the leaves of striped dracaenas away from cold windows, air conditioners, and heaters.","Dracaena plants prefer high humidity but do well in basic household humidity.","Although dracaenas can bloom, they rarely flower as potted plants.","Mealy Bugs and spider mites","Fluoride toxicity causes brown leaf tips and long tan/brown streaks in the white stripes of the leaves. Over watering causes root rot. Fusarium Leaf Spot Disease causes reddish tan spots with wide, yellow halos on a Dracaena Warnekii.","Use a fast-draining well-aerated loose soil. Dracaena plants can even be grown in soil mixed with lava rock.","These plants like to be root-bound in a small pot. When the roots have filled the existing pot, it is time to move your dracaena warnekii to the next size container. Be sure any pot you use has drip holes in the bottom.","Brown leaf tips can be cut off the leaves with a wet scissors. Tall stalks with only a few leaves at the top can be cut anywhere along the stalk. New growth appears all along the stem below the cut area.","A Dracaena warnekii is propagated by stem (cane) cuttings.","Dracaena warnekii plants have a level #1 toxicity and are considered slightly poisonous especially to dogs and cats."
"127","Easter Lily Plant","LILIUM LONGIFLORUM","Easter Lily Plants need bright indirect light but no direct sun.","Water an Easter Lily Plant when the first inch or two of soil is dry. Be careful not to over water or to allow the Easter Lily Plant to sit in water. Many Easter Lily Plants come in a decorative wrap. Remove this wrap when watering so excess water can drain freely from the Easter Lily plant and allow the plant to air out before replacing the wrap. When buying an Easter Lily Plant, avoid plants that have soggy soil, since may indicate root rot.","It's not necessary to fertilize an Easter Lily Plant while it is in bloom. However, once all of the blooms are gone, and you've placed the Easter Lily Plant in a sunny spot indoors or planted it outdoors, fertilize about every six weeks with a slow release plant food.","Easter Lilies prefer moderate to cool temperatures, 60-75 during the day and 55-65 at night. Like many other flowering plants, they do not do well in drafts or placed near fireplaces, heating vents, or appliances that give off heat.","","As the fragrant flowers of an Easter Lily Plant develop, cut off the yellow anthers at the center of the flower. This helps the lilies last longer and prevents the pollen from ruining the lovely white blooms. Easter Lily will not re-bloom indoors.","","","If you decide to plant your Easter Lily outside after they finish blooming and all danger of frost has passed, use a quick draining rich organic soil.","An Easter Lily plant never needs to be repotted.","Immediately cut off the fading flowers to keep an Easter Lily plant looking good and growing.","Easter Lily Plants are propagated by bulb division.","All Lily Plants are poisonous , especially for cats. Cats become ill if they ingest any part of an Easter Lily."
"128","Emerald Gem Plant","HOMALOMENA","An Emerald Gem Plant requires medium indirect light but grows even better in bright indirect light . Homalomenas can survive in low light but become thin and spindly. The bottom leaves of an Emerald Gem Plant turn yellow and fall off when there is not enough light.","Watering is the most difficult part of caring for an Emerald Gem Plant. When an Emerald Gem Plant is either over or under watered the bottom leaves fall off. Always allow the top 50% of the soil of an Emerald Gem Plant to dry out before watering. An Emerald Gem Plant doesn't like anything cold, so use warm water and never dump extra ice cubes into the soil.","Feed an Emerald Gem Plant monthly in the spring and summer when the plant is actively growing with a basic houseplant food at 1/2 the recommended strength. In the fall and winter fertilize an Emerald Gem Plant every other month if the plant is producing new leaves.","Emerald Gem Plants like warm household temperatures between 65-80 degrees. Keep Homalomanas away from air conditioners and cold drafts.","An Emerald Gem Plant does well in regular household humidity.","An Emerald Gem Plant or Homalomena produces spaths which rarely open so flowers are not often seen.","Emerald Gem Plants are fairly pest resistant. If spider mites, Mealy Bugs , or white flies appear, spray an Emerald Gem Plant with the green solution .","Emerald Gem plants are disease resistant plants.","Use a quick-draining, loose soil, containing plenty of peat moss, perlite, and hard sand for an Emerald gem Plant. This type of soil helps prevent an Emerald gem Plant from getting root rot.","Emerald Gem Plants can be found in 6""-10"" containers","An Emerald gem Plant is a very symmetrical plant that rarely needs pruning.","The easiest way to propagate an Emerald Gem Plant is by plant division .","An Emerald Gem Plant or Homalomena is a slightly poisonous houseplant with a level #1 toxicity."
"129","English Ivy Plant","HEDERA HELIX","English Ivy plants like bright indirect light . Direct sun burns their leaves. When the light is too low, the new leaves are smaller and further apart on the stem.","Most English Ivy plants die because they are over-watered. Allow the top 25-30% of the soil to dry out before watering. Crispy leaves indicate over-watering not under-watering.","Feed every two weeks in the spring and summer with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Fertilize monthly in the fall and winter. Never feed an English Ivy if the temperature is extremely hot or cold, if the soil is very dry, or if the ivy plant is not producing new leaves.","English Ivy plants grow well in temperatures between 55degrees- 75degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees-23.9degrees C) during the daytime and about 10degrees cooler at night (45degrees-65degrees Fahrenheit/ 7.2degrees-12.8degrees Celsius). They do grow better when the temperature is consistent.","Medium to high humidity helps maintain the appearance of the leaves.","","English Ivy plants are susceptible to spider mites, scale , Mealy Bugs , Aphids , and white flies. To help prevent plant pests, spray once a month with the "" green solution "" (recipe in the Glossary).","Watch out for fungal and bacterial Leaf Spot Disease . Read more about Leaf Spot Disease in the Glossary of the website. https://www.houseplant411.com/glossary/leaf-spot-plant-disease-identify-and-treat","Use a well-drained, rich, organic soil","","Aggressively trim the long runners to keep the plant bushy and full.","English Ivy plants are easily propagated using stem tip cuttings. Read more about this propagation technique in the Glossary.","An English Ivy is a very poisonous plant with a #3 toxicity level . Keep it away from pets and small children."
"130","Episcia Plant","EPISCIA CUPRIATA","Episcia Plants require bright light but no direct sun. If the light is too bright, the color in the leaves fades.","The soil of an Episcia plant should be moist but not soggy at all times. If the soil is too dry, the leaves develop brown edges. In the winter, when an Episcia is not growing, allow the soil to become a little drier.","Special African Violet plant fertilizer is great for Episcia plants. In a pinch, use a balanced, soluble, houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Fertilize monthly when the plant is actively growing.","Average household temperatures above 65degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees Celsius). Lower temperatures may cause brown leaf edges. An Episcia plant usually dies when the temperature goes below 50degrees Fahrenheit ( 10degrees Celsius).","Episcia plants like high humidity especially as the temperature in the room increases.","The ""Flame Violet"" variety of the Episcia plant produces orange-red tubular flowers and the e. dianthiflora variety produces larger white fringed flowers. Moderate to high humidity is essential for an Episcia plant to flower.","Spider Mites and Mealy Bugs can be a problem. Check often and use a Qtip dipped in alcohol or Neem Oil to treat any plant pests as soon as they appear. Since the leaves of an Episcia plant are easily damaged, only use commercial insecticides recommended for African Violet plants.","Episcia plants thrive and bloom in high humidity which makes them susceptible to Botritis, powdery mildew , and Erwinia Blight. Preventing these plant diseases is easier than treating them so try to provide good air circulation and avoid misting the leaves of an Episcia.","Episcia plants like a rich, airy potting medium. These plants are relatives of African Violets, so special African Violet plant soil is a good choice.","Episcia plants should be re-potted once a year with fresh soil. This helps prevent unwanted salt build-up that can damage the roots. If their roots have taken on the shape of the pot, it's time to move your Episcia to the next size pot.","It's best to remove the small, developing stolons (runners), to allow the plant to develop well. Episcias grow very quickly, and can look straggly if not actively pruned. Trim the stolons (runners) to keep the plant full and bushy.","Episcia plants produce thread like runners or stolens that root in the surrounding soil. These runners develop small plantlets at their tips. propagation is very easy using these plantlets.","An Episcia is a non - poisonous houseplant."
"91","False Aralia","DIZYGOTHECA ELEGANTISSIMA","A False Aralia likes bright indirect light , but no direct sun.","Keep the soil barely moist but never soggy. When you water, water well until the water comes out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Allow the top 1¿-2¿ of soil to dry out before watering again. Wilted leaves usually mean the plant is over-watered. The plant loses leaves if the soil is too wet or too dry. During the winter, when the plant is resting, allow the soil to dry out more before watering.","Feed every 2 weeks in the spring and summer when the plant is actively growing with a well- balanced liquid plant food. Feed monthly in the fall and winter. Always dilute the plant food to 1/2 the recommended strength.","These plants like warm temperatures between 65degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (18-29degrees Celsius). If the temperature dips below 60degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees Celsius) a false aralia may drop leaves.","Aralias require moderate to high humidity. If the air is too dry, a false aralia loses leaves.","","Spider mites, scale, mealybugs, and Aphids can all be aproble. Read more about these plant pests in the Glossary of the website.","Plat disease problems are dry rare.","Use a good quality potting soil that retains moisture but still drains quickly.","Aralias like to be a bit root- bound in small pots. Once the roots have filled the existing container, re-pot in the spring to the next size pot (nothing larger). Be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of the pot so excess water can escape.","A False Aralia doesn't need much pruning. It usually maintains a beautiful shape allow its own. If the plant drops leaves and gets thin, you can aggressively cut it back in the spring to make it bushier.","The best way to propagate an aralia is to use stem tip cuttings. propagation should be done in the spring. If the stem on the aralia plant is very thick, air layering in another propagation method that works well with this plant. You can read all about various propagation techniques in the Glossary of the website.","A False aralia, is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"92","Fatsia Plant","FATSIA JAPONICA","A fatsia does well in bright filtered light. If you move it outdoors in the spring and summer, be sure to keep it in the shade.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering, the leaves may even start to droop a little. Brown brittle leaves indicate under-watering. Soft leaves that turn yellow and fall off indicate over-watering.","Use a well-balanced liquid plant food every other week in the spring and summer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","A Fatsia likes cool temperatures, especially in the winter when it is resting. It does well in temperatures between 45degrees-55degrees Fahrenheit (7.2degrees Celsius-12.8degrees Celsius) in the winter and never above 70degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees Celsius) during the rest of the year.","This plant likes medium to high humidity","When used as an indoor plant, a Fatsia rarely gets the tiny white blooms found on it when it grows outdoors. Black berries usually follow flowers.","Fatsia plants attract spider mites, Mealy Bugs , scale , and Aphids .","Since this plant likes medium to high humidity, powdery mildew may develop on the leaves. Provide good air circulation and try to keep the leaves dry.","Use a light, rich, fast draining potting soil.","These plants need fairly large pots in order to grow to an impressive size. Always provide good drainage.","Keep a fatsia plant small & manageable or large and elegant with regular aggressive pruning in the spring. Pinch back the growing tips to encourage the plant to branch out and become bushier.","Propagate using stem tip cuttings in spring.","A Fatsia is non-toxic plant."
"93","Ficus Alii Plant","FICUS MACLELLANDII","Ficus Alii plants do well in bright, indirect light; however, they can survive in medium light. The lower the light, the longer a ficus Alii takes to produce new leaves. Rotate it weekly to maintain the plant's beautiful shape.","Water when the top 1"" of the soil has dried out. If the plant is in a container larger than 12"" wait until the top 2"" of soil has dried out. Water deeply so that the excess water drains out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Immediately empty excess water and do not allow a ficus Alii to sit in water. New growth turns black and green leaves fall off from over -watering. Leaves become brown and crunchy, drop off, and may turn yellow when the plant needs water.","Feed monthly with a well-balanced liquid fertilizer when the plant is actively growing. It is not necessary to feed the plant during the winter and fall. Avoid using any plant foods that contain the chemical boron.","Unlike the ficus Benjamina, these plants are much more tolerant of temperature changes. Although a ficus Alii prefers temperatures between 60degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (19degrees-25degrees Celsius), these plants can survive in temperatures as low as 45degrees Fahrenheit (7.2degrees Celsius) for a short time.","A ficus Alii prefers medium humidity, but still grows well in basic household humidity.","These plants produce Insignificant flowers & berries that should be removed as soon as they appear.","Pests that attack ficus plants include: Mealy Bugs, whitefly, scale, and thrip.","gray mold (Botritis) occurs when the leaves of a ficus Alii are kept too wet. Anthracnose is another plant disease that can be a problem.","Use a good, all purpose, well- aerated potting soil.","The roots of ficus Alii plants grow very slowly, so don't be in a rush to move the plant to a larger pot. Be sure the roots have filled the entire bottom of its pot before moving the plant to a larger container. Ficus Alii houseplants like to be root- bound.","Prune a ficus during the winter to maintain the shape of the plant and encourage a bushier plant.","Propagate a ficus Alli using branch cuttings.","Ficus Alii are poisonous plants with a level #2 toxicity. The sap contains latex that can cause skin irritations. Always wear gloves when pruning."
"94","Ficus Pumila","FICUS REPENS","A ficus pumila needs indirect light from an east or west-facing window. Plants with variegated leaves require even more light. Creeping fig plants do surprisingly well in strong artificial light.","Keep the soil moist but never soggy. The leaves of a ficus pumila deteriorate if the soil is allowed to repeatedly dry out. Reduce water during the winter.","Fertilize monthly in the spring, summer, and fall with a basic houseplant food diluted to half the recommended strength. During fall and winter, fertilize every other month.","A ficus pumila, also called a ficus repens, does well in temperatures between 55degrees Fahrenheit-75degrees Fahrenheit ( 12.8degrees Celsius-23.9degrees Celsius)","This plant likes plenty of humidity. Place it on a pebble tray filled with water, be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water; put a humidifier close by; or group plants together to cause a mini- greenhouse effect.","","Mealy Bugs , scale , whiteflies , and spider mites.","No serious disease problems","Use a highly organic peat-based soil that drains quickly.","","","Use Stem Cuttings in the early spring.","A ficus pumila has a #1 toxicity level ."
"95","Ficus Tree","FICUS BENJAMINA","Ficus trees, especially the Benjamina and Wintergreen varieties, need very bright indirect light . New varieties, called ""Ficus of the Future"", can survive in medium and even low light . Examples of ""Ficus of the Future"" are the Monique with ruffled green leaves, the Midnight with dark green/black leaves, and the ficus Alli with elongated leaves. Direct sun burns the leaves of all ficus trees.","Allow the top 25% of the soil to dry out before watering. Under-watering causes leaves to turn yellow. Green leaves to fall off and new growth turns black when a ficus is over-watered. Ficus trees grow better if you follow a consistent watering schedule.","Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer, when the tree is actively growing, with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Indoor ficus trees like temperatures between 65degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-29.4degrees Celsius). Keep a ficus tree away from cold drafts, air conditioners, and heaters or it will lose leaves.","Household humidity above 30% is best.","","Ficus trees are susceptible to spider mites, scale , and Mealy Bugs . Spraying with the "" green solution "" (recipe in the Glossary) usually gets rid of most pests. Use a child's toothbrush to scrape "" scale "" off the leaves and then spray with Neem Oil .","Anthranose and leaf spot are the two main houseplant diseases that affect ficus trees. They usually appear as yellow spots that turn brown and the leaves drop of. The best way to treat these diseases is to keep the leaves dry, spry with Neem Oil , or use a commercial Fungicide .","Use a rich, quick-draining potting soil that contains sand, peat moss, and a little bark.","Ficus trees like to be a little root-bound in smaller containers. You can easily keep a 5' ficus in a 10” pot. A pot that is too large encourages over-watering which leads to green leaves falling off.","The best time to prune is in the late summer or early fall after a ficus tree has stopped growing for the year. You can prune dead or broken branches at any time during the year.","Propagate an indoor ficus tree by Stem Cuttings or by air-layering. You can read more about these propagation methods in the Glossary of the website.","A ficus is considered a slightly poisonous houseplant with a level #1 toxicity. Many people find the sap extremely irritating if it comes in contact with their skin."
"96","Fiddle Leaf Fig Plant","FICUS LYRATA","A Fiddle Leaf Fig requires bright, indirect light. In low light , new leaves are small and mature leaves may fall off. Turn frequently to keep a Ficus Lyrata from growing toward the light and becoming lop-sided. Too much bright light causes the leaves to fade.","A Fiddle Leaf Fig requires less water than other ficus trees. Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out and the leaves to become soft and flexible before watering. Keep the leaves dry and water off of the large fiddle shaped leaves to prevent mold. Too much water and water on the leaves can also cause ugly brown spots on the leaves.","Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Too much fertilizer when the plant is not actively growing causes leaf tip burn.","Fiddle Leaf Fig trees do well in temperatures between 60degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees- 26.7degrees Celsius). Keep all types of ficus trees away from air conditioners, cold drafts, and heating vents. Intense cold or heat causes leaf drop.","This plant does well in normal household humidity through it prefers higher humidity.","","The broad leaves of a Fiddle Leaf Fig attract Mealy Bugs , thrip , whitefly , spider mites, and Aphids . Spray every other week with warm soapy water to discourage these pests. Spraying a Fiddle Leaf Fig also keeps the large leaves dust free and clean so they can absorb more light. Dry leaves after spraying to prevent bacterial infections..","powdery mildew , root rot, and Leaf Spot Disease","Use a well-aerated potting soil that holds water but still drains quickly.","Fiddle Leaf Fig plants, like all ficus plants, like being root-bound in small pots.","If a Fiddle Leaf Fig (Ficus Lyrata) gets too tall, gently remove it from its pot and trim the roots. Trimming the roots limits how tall the plant grows. Root-trimming a ficus plant can be done every few years during winter and fall. Cutting the stems back in the early spring encourages a ficus tree to become bushier.","Propagate using air- layering and Stem Cuttings .","A Fiddle Leaf Fig is considered a poisonous houseplant with a level #1 toxicity. The sap of is especially irritating."
"97","Fishtail Palm","CARYOTA MITIS","Fishtail Palms need very bright indirect light from an east or west-facing window. Avoid direct exposure to the sun.","Water a Fishtail Palm well and then allow the top 25% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Never allow the soil to totally dry out or permit a Fishtail Palm to sit in excess water. Leaf edges turn brown if there are too many chemicals in the water. If this is the case, use distilled water.","Fertilize a Fishtail Palm monthly, when it is actively growing, with a basic houseplant food at 1/2 the recommended strength. Never fertilize in the winter.","Fishtail Palms prefer temperatures between 75-85 degrees during the day and 60-70 degrees at night. Try to keep a Fishtail Palm out of cold drafts and away from air conditioners. Nighttime temperatures should never go below 45 degrees.","A Fishtail Palm thrives in high humidity. It does exceptionally well in spas and indoor pool areas.","","Spider mites are the main problem. Spray a Fishtail Palm with a mild solution of warm soapy water a few times a month. This prevents and gets rid of spider mites. It also keep the fronds clean and free of dust.","","Fishtail Palms grow best when planted in a fast-draining porous soil containing a large amount of organic matter.","","The new growth on a Fishtail Palm comes from the end of the stalk only. If you cut the newest frond off below where it is attached to the main stem, there will be NO more new growth on the plant.","The best way to propagate a Fishtail Palm is by plant division .","A Fishtail Palm is a poisonous houseplant and has a #2 Toxicity level ."
"98","Fittonia Plant","FITTONIA VERSCHAFFETII","A nerve plant likes bright indirect light but no direct sun.","Keep the soil moist, but not soggy, at all times.","Feed when actively growing with a balanced fertilizer diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength.","Prefer warm temperatures between 70degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (21degrees-26degrees Celsius) and do not do well in temperatures below 60degrees Fahrenheit (15degrees Celsius)","Nerve plants require high humidity.","It's important to prune any flowers that appear; this prevents the plant from going to seed.","Fungus Gnats , Aphids , and Mealy Bugs","Leaf spot, mosaic viruses, and root rot due to overwatering.","Use a peat moss based potting soil that retains moisture but still drains quickly.","Re-pot annually with fresh soil if the roots have filled the existing container","Prune the leaf tips aggressively to keep the plant full and prevent it from becoming leggy.","Use leaf tip cuttings to propagate a nerve plant during the late spring.","Fittonia plants (nerve plant, mosaic plant) are non- poisonous ."
"99","Gardenia Plant","GARDENIA JASMINOIDES","A gardenia plant requires very bright light for at least 6-8 hours a day. Be prepared to move your gardenia to different locations as the seasons change. grow lights may be necessary if there is not enough natural light to help your gardenia plant thrive.","Gardenia plants need to be watered very carefully. Allow the top 2-3 inches of the soil to dry out before watering. Over-watering causes root rot, brown spots on leaves, and buds not to open. Under-watering a gardenia plant results in green leaves falling off.","Fertilize every two weeks when a gardenia plant is actively growing in the spring and summer. Gardenia plants like a plant food that is made for acid loving plants. Always dilute the fertilizer to 1/2 the recommended strength. Feed monthly in the fall and winter.","The correct temperature is extremely important. Ideal temperatures for gardenia plants are between 65degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-21.2degrees Celsius) during the day and 55degrees-65degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees-18.3degrees Celsius) at night. Cool night temperatures are essential for the buds to set. Gardenia buds drop off if temperatures go above 70degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees Celsius).","High humidity is another gardenia plant requirement. Increase household humidity, especially during dry winter months, by placing a humidifier near the plant, putting a gardenia on a pebble tray filled with water (be sure the plant sits on the pebbles not in the water), or grouping several plants together. Misting doesn't help increase the humidity for a gardenia plant and causes fungal growth on the leaves.","Gardenia plants will not bloom unless all of their light, water, fertilizer , and soil requirements are met. On top of that, in order for gardenia buds to set, the nighttime temperatures should be around 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius).","Gardenia plants attract Mealy Bugs , spider mites, white flies, thrip s, and Aphids . If using a commercial insecticide or the green solution (recipe in Glossary), avoid spraying the buds or flowers.","The high humidity a garden plant needs encourages fungal and bacterial diseases. Prevent these diseases from ruining your plant by providing good air circulation, keeping the leaves dry, and temperatures cool.","Grows best in a well-drained acidic soil with some peat moss added. You can increase the acidity level in the soil and make your gardenia plants happy, by watering once a month with left-over tea or very dilute vinegar.","","Pruning properly is very important if you want a gardenia plant to bloom. Since buds and flowers appear only on the new growth, old woody stems need to be removed to encourage the new young stems to develop.","Gardenia plants are propagated from Stem Cuttings . When you trim the plant in the spring and summer, save some of the 5""-6"" clippings to start new plants. You can read more about propagating a plant using Stem Cuttings in the Glossary of the website.","A gardenia is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"100","Geranium Plant","PELARGONIUM","Geranium plants grow indoors when placed in moderate light, but only bloom in very bright intense light. Fluorescent lights about 10 to 12 inches from a geranium plant can be used to supplement natural light","Geranium plants survive being under- watered but quickly develop root- rot when over- watered. Wait until the top 50% of the soil is dry, before watering.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer with a water-soluble houseplant fertilizer . Geranium plants need food only when they are actively growing.","Geranium plants prefer cool temperatures between 65degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees- 21.1degrees Celsius) during the day, and around 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius) at night. Avoid placing a geranium plant in cold, drafty areas or hot, dry places.","Geranium plants grow well in normal household humidity. Very high humidity encourages bacterial and fungal infections; very low humidity encourages spider mites.","Geranium Plants need very bright intense light to bloom indoors. Immediately remove dead or faded flowers to encourage a Geranium to produce more flowers.","Aphids , whitefly , and spider mites can be a plant pest problem. If you put your Geranium outside for the summer, be careful caterpillars don't munch on it.","Bacterial leaf spot, gray mold , blossom blight, or rust are plant diseases that attack geranium plants if the humidity is too high or if the soil or leaves stay wet.","Use a quick- draining, all- purpose, loose houseplant potting mixture that contains a fair amount of nutrients. If your geranium soil is heavy and clay-like, add some sand and compost to it.","As with all container plants, geraniums should be planted in pots with drainage holes. These plants like to be root-bound so don't rush to re-pot them. When you move geraniums to a larger pot, use a container only one size larger than your existing pot.","Pruning a geranium plant helps keep it looking full. Cut back woody and leggy stems to keep the plant compact and bushy.","Geranium plants are easily propagated using Stem Cuttings in the spring.","Geranium plants are poisonous with a level #1 toxicity."
"141","Goldfish Plant","COLUMNEA NEMATANTHUS","A goldfish plant requires bright indirect light especially if you want it to develop flowers.","Allow the top 25%-30% of the soil to dry out before watering. Green leaves fall off when the plant is too wet or too dry.","Fertilize a goldfish plant every two weeks in the spring and summer when it is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to the recommended strength. Feed monthly in the fall and winter.","Goldfish plants do well in temperatures between 65degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit ( 18.3degrees-29.4degrees Celsius). Intense heat burns the leaves. Try to keep goldfish plants out of drafts and away from heaters.","These plants prefer high humidity, but adapt well to basic household humidity.","Keeping a goldfish plant in a small pot and in a very bright location encourages it to flower.","Aphids and Mealy Bugs are the main problem. It's difficult to eliminate these pests once they have infected a goldfish plant because of the plants numerous small leaves where the pests love to hide. Spray the leaves thoroughly with the ""green solution"" to get rid of plant pests but try to avoid spraying the flowers.","botrytis , leaf spot, and some plant viruses may develop in high humidity.","Goldfish plants prefer a rich potting soil that holds water but still drains quickly. An African Violet soil works well.","Goldfish plants are usually found in 6"" and 8"" pots.","Trim aggressively to keep a goldfish plant full and in bloom. These plants look better and bloom more if you keep the stems between 12-18 inches (30-45 cm).","Propagate using Stem Cuttings from healthy new growth.","A Goldfish Plant is a slightly poisonous houseplant with a level #1 toxicity."
"142","Grape Ivy Plant","CISSUS RHOMBIFOLIA","Grape Ivy plants require medium to high light though new varieties such as Ellen Danica and Mandianna can live in lower light. If the stems stretch toward the light and new leaves are further apart on the stem, move your plant to a brighter location.","Water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Crispy leaves mean the plant in over-watered.","Fertilize every other month when a Grape Ivy is actively growing with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. A Grape Ivy should not be fed in the winter. Yellow leaves usually means the plant needs more food.","Grape Ivy plants can handle temperatures from 40degrees-90degrees Fahrenheit (4.4degrees-32.2degrees Celsius), although growth slows above 80degrees Fahrenheit ( 26.7degrees Celsius). The ideal temperature for a Grape Ivy Plant is 60degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit ( 15.6degrees-26.7degrees Celsius).","Basic household humidity","","Grape Ivies attract Mealy Bugs and spider mites.","T prevent powdery mildew , provide good air circulation and keep the leaves dry.","Use a well-aerated soil that drains quickly. Grape Ivy Plants grow well in African Violet soil.","","Pinching back the stem tips keeps a Grape or Oak Ivy plant full and bushy.","Propagate a Grape Ivy using Stem Cuttings . Be sure to let cut ends of the stems dry out a day or two before planting them. Grape Ivy plants should not be propagated during the hot summer months.","A Grape Ivy is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"143","Hawaiian Schefflera - Gold Capella","SCHEFFLERA ARBORICOLA","The brighter the light the faster and fuller a Hawaiian Schefflera plant grows. Variegated Hawaiian Scheffleras like the ""Capella"" require more light than solid green Hawaiian scheffleras. Direct sun burns the leaves of all types of schefflera plants.","Water well and then allow the top 1/3 of the soil to dry out before watering again. This might be an inch or two in a small pot and 5"" or more in a large pot. Green leaves fall off and new growth turns black when a Hawaiian Schefflera is over- watered. Leaves turn bright yellow when it is under-watered.","Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Avoid feeding schefflera plants when they are not actively growing.","Hawaiian Scheffleras are fine with basic household temperatures. Try to keep all Schefflera plants out of cold drafts and away from heaters and air conditioners.","Grow well in normal household humidity.","Hawaiian Schefflera plants flower in the wild but very rarely indoors.","Spider mite, scale, Aphids, and Mealy Bugs can all be a problem especially on the new growth.","Bacterial diseases such as Leaf Blight and fungal diseases such as Leaf Spot may cause problems.","Use a well-aerated loose soil that retains water but still drains quickly.","Hawaiian Scheffleras prefer to be root-bound in small pots.","If a Hawaiian Schefflera gets too big or too thin and leggy, aggressively prune it back. Schefflera plants love to be pruned. New growth appears directly below the cut in the stem so try to make your cut above a stem leaf node","Stem Cuttings and air layering","Hawaiian Schefflera plants are mildly poisonous with a #1 toxicity level."
"144","Hawaiian Schefflera Plant","SCHEFFLERA ARBORICOLA","The brighter the light the faster and bushier a Hawaiian schefflera plant grows. Variegated Hawaiian scheffleras, like the ""capella"" variety, require more light than solid green varieties. Direct sun burns the leaves on all varieties of schefflera.","Water well and then allow the top 1/3 of the soil to dry out before watering again. Seemingly healthy leaves fall off and new growth turns black when a Hawaiian schefflera is over- watered. Leaves turn bright yellow when the plant needs more water.","Fertilize a Hawaiian schefflera plant monthly in the spring and summer with a balanced plant food diluted to one half the recommended strength. Avoid feeding when the plant is not actively growing.","Hawaiian scheffleras grow well in normal household temperatures. Try to keep the plant out of cold drafts and away from heaters and air conditioners.","Normal household humidity.","Although a Hawaiian schefflera often flowers when grown outdoors, it must be a mature plant and be in an ideal area to flower as an indoor houseplant.","Spider Mites, scale , Aphids , and Mealy Bugs all like scheffleras. These annoying insects especially like the tender, new growth. Read more about these pests and how to get rid of them in the Glossary of the website.","Bacterial leaf diseases such as leaf blight and fungal leaf diseases such as Leaf Spot Disease are a problem when the leaves are kept wet and the humidity is high.","Use a well-aerated loose potting soil that retains water but still drains quickly.","Hawaiian scheffleras prefer to be root-bound in small pots. This also helps prevent over-watering.","Aggressively prune a Hawaiian schefflera when it gets too large or looks thin and leggy. All schefflera plants love to be trimmed. New growth appears directly below the cut in the stem.","Stem Cuttings , or if the plant has a thick trunk, air layering .","Hawaiian scheffleras are considered to be slightly poisonous plants with a #1 toxicity level . Keep this plant out of reach of small children and pets."
"145","Hawaiian Ti Plant","CORDYLINE TERMINALIS","A Ti plant requires bright, indirect light, but no direct sun.","Proper watering is the most difficult part of taking care of a Ti plant. The soil needs to be moist but never soggy and should never totally dry out. If your household water contains a great deal of fluorine, chlorine, or passes through a water softener, use distilled water or allow your regular water to sit out over night before using it. Chemicals in the water damage the leaves of a Ti plant. Fluoride toxicity is especially harmful, causing ugly brown leaf tips.","Feed a Ti plant monthly in the spring and summer with a liquid or slow release plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never use a fertilizer that contains fluoride.","Ti plants prefer warm temperatures between 65degrees-85degrees F (18.3degrees-29.4degrees C). Be careful to keep a Ti plant away from drafts and heating vents.","High humidity is necessary to keep the leaves looking good. Set a humidifier nearby or place your Ti plant on a wet pebble tray if the air is very dry. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","","Ti plants attract Fungus Gnats , Mealy Bugs , spider mites, scale , and thrip . A bad infestation of spider mites is often the cause of faded looking leaves. Spray frequently with a mild soapy water solution and keep the leaves dust- free to help prevent both plant pests and plant diseases.","Since Ti plants prefer high humidity, they often get fungal and bacterial diseases such as Leaf Spot and Erwinia Blight.","Use a loose, well-aerated fast-draining potting soil.","Re-pot in the spring if the roots have filled the existing container. When moving a Ti plant to a bigger pot, use one that is only one size larger than the current pot and be sure it has drainage holes in the bottom.","Prune brown, yellow, or damaged leaves with a clean, sharp scissors that has been dipped in alcohol to prevent spreading any plant diseases.","Propagate using cane cuttings , Stem Cuttings , or plant division . If the stalks are thick enough, you can even try air layering . Read about all of these propagation techniques in the Glossary.","Ti plants are poisonous with a #2 toxicity level . They are especially dangerous to dogs and cats."
"146","Hibiscus Plant","HIBISCUS TRIONUM","Hibiscus require very bright light and several hours of direct sun in order to bloom as indoor plants.","During the spring and summer, when a Hibiscus is actively growing, keep the soil moist but never soggy. In the fall and winter, allow the top 2"" to dry out before watering.","Hibiscus need a great deal of plant food. Fertilize every two weeks in the spring and summer and monthly the rest of the year with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Hibiscus Plants do well in temperatures between 65degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-29.4degrees Celsius). If the temperature goes below 40degrees Fahrenheit (4.4degrees Celsius) for a prolonged period of time, the new growth is ruined.","Hibiscus grow better and produce more flowers in high humidity.","Although Hibiscus plants produce large beautiful flowers, the blooms usually last for a day. Cool themperatures help the blooms last longer.","Hibiscus attract Aphids , thrip s, whiteflies , and spider mites. Spray frequently with a mild solution of warm soapy water to prevent insect and disease problems.","Leaf Spot and several other types of fungi may cause brown or black circular or irregular shaped spots on the leaves of Hibiscus plants.","Use a rich organic soil that holds the water but still drainsquickly. Hibiscus plants grow better if the soil is a little acidic so try adding a teaspoon of vinegar to your water once a month or watering with leftover tea.","","Aggressively pinch and prune Hibiscus plants especially when they are small. By pruning one branch that's blooming, you'll be rewarded with three branches that bloom as the plant matures.","Propagate using Stem Cuttings or air layering. If using Stem Cuttings, try to put at least 15-20 cuttings into a 6"" pot.","Hibiscus are non- poisonous plants."
"147","Hoya Hindu Rope Plant","HOYA CARNOSA COMPACTA","All Hindu Rope plants, both green and variegated, grow best in very bright light . Southern exposure is best, but it can adapt to east or west locations in front of a window. In lows light, a Hindu Rope plant may never bloom. Afternoon sun will burn and bleach the color from the leaves.","All hoya plants, including the Hindu Rope plant, are succulent s that need very little water. Water when the soil is almost dry. During the winter, water all varieties of hoya plants even less.","Feed monthly during the spring and summer with a water-soluble plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Use a fertilizer high in potassium to encourage Hindu Rope plants to bloom.","Hindu Rope plants prefer daytime temperatures of 70 degrees (F) or higher and nighttime temperatures between 60degrees and 65degrees (F). These temperatures encourage mature plants to flower during the late spring and summer.","Basic household humidity","Hindu Rope plants are slow growers that take several years to produce clusters of star-shaped waxy flowers on long vines. In bright light and when given the proper amount of food and water, they bloom in late spring & early summer. Do not remove the leafless spurs or stubs that appear on the plant; this is where the new flowers develop.","Mealy Bugs are the most common houseplant pest that attacks Hindu Rope plants. Mealy Bugs get inside the curly twists and turns of the plant leaves. The best way to get rid of these plant pests is to spray all parts of Hindu Rope plant with the green solution . Aphids that may appear on new growth can also be treated with the green solution or an insecticidal soap .","The main plant diseases that affect a Hindu Rope HousePlants are botrytis , a fungus that causes grayish areas on the leaves and Stem and Root Rot caused by over-watering.","Use a well-aerated fast-draining potting soil for Hindu Rope HousePlants. Add a little sand to the soil to loosen it up if the soil seems heavy.","Hindu Rope HousePlants should be kept in small pots to prevent over- watering.","Never totally cut off the old stems of a Hindu Rope House Plants since this is where the new flowers develop.","Hindu Rope HousePlants, Hoya carnosa ""Krinkle Kurl,"" can be propagated anytime using stem-tip cuttings. A portion of the Hoya Plant stem, including one or more pairs of leaves, quickly produces roots in water or damp sand.","Although not considered poisonous, a Hindu Rope Plant can make dogs and cats ill if they eat a large number of leaves."
"148","Hoya Plant","HOYA CARNOSA","Hoya plants do best and bloom more often in very bright, indirect light. They are one of the few indoor plants that can handle direct morning sun. Although hoya plants can adapt to lower light, they grow much slower and do not produce their fragrant, waxy flowers that are so beautiful.","Hoyas are Succulent Plant s that store water in their leaves. Allow the soil to practically dry out before watering. These plants thrive on neglect, but do need additional water when in bloom. If your water contains fluorine or chlorine, allow it to sit out 24 hours or more so the chemicals can dissipate before using it. These chemicals are very harmful to a hoya plant.","Feed a hoya monthly, when the plant is actively growing, with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Hoya plants can adapt to almost any moderate temperature, but prefer 65degrees Fahrenheit- 80degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees- 26.7degrees Celsius ) during the day and 60degrees Fahrenheit - 65degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees Celsius - 18.3degrees Celsius) at night.","Basic household humidity or lower is fine for hoya plants.","Here are some specific hints on how to get a hoya plant to flower. A mature hoya plant (3 plus yrs) produces beautiful clusters of fragrant flowers in numerous colors. Each hoya flower has five waxy petals. New flowers develop on the older stems so never cut off the old flower stems. The ideal location indoors is right in front of a window facing east or west where the plant can get a few hours of direct sunlight. Provide bright, indirect light the rest of the day. In winter, when the plant is resting, allow the soil to totally dry out before watering; this helps it bloom more the rest of the year. The flowers grow in an ¿umbel,¿ like an upside down umbrella, and there may be one to 50 flowers in each umbel.","Hoya plants are susceptible to Mealy Bugs , spider mites, and Aphids . Spray the entire plant, reaching every little twisted section if possible, with the green solution (recipe in Glossary).","The main plant diseases that affect hoya plants are botrytis , a fungus that causes grayish areas on the leaves, and crown, stem, and root rot , a fungal disease caused by humid warm conditions, wet leaves, soggy soil, and poor air circulation.","Use a well-aerated fast-draining potting soil. Add a little sand to the soil if it seems too heavy and is not drying out quickly.","Keep hoya plants in small pots that have drip holes in the bottom to prevent over-watering.","Never totally cut off the old stems on a hoya plant since this is where the new flowers develop.","Hoya plants are easy to propagate using stem tip cuttings from the new vines. Read more about propagation using stem tip cuttings in the Glossary of the website.","Although not considered poisonous , hoya plants may make dogs and cats ill if they eat a large number of the leaves.."
"149","Hoya Shooting Stars Plant","HOYA MULTIFLORA","Hoya Plants do best and bloom more in very bright light . Hoya Plants are one of the few indoor houseplants that can even thrive in direct sun. Although Hoya Plants can adapt to lower light, they grow slower and do not produce the fragrant porcelain- like flowers that are so beautiful.","Hoya Plants are succulent s and need to completely dry out before being watered. Hoya Plants do thrive on neglect, but need additional water when in bloom.","Feed a Hoya Plant monthly with a balanced houseplant food at 1/2 the recommended strength when it is actively growing.","Hoya Plants can adapt to any temperature but prefer 60-65 degrees at night and 70-80 degrees during the day.","Provide basic household humidity or lower for a Hoya Plant.","A Hoya Shooting Stars Plant produces beautiful clusters of fragrant flowers in white and yellow. Each Hoya flower has five waxy petals. New flowers develop on the old flower stems of a Hoya Plant so never cut off the old stems.","Hoya Plants are prone to plant pests such as Mealy Bugs , spider mites, and Aphids . Spray the entire Hoya plant, reaching every little twisted section if possible, with the green solution to treat plant pests.","The main plant diseases that affect Hoya Plants are botrytis , a fungus that causes grayish areas on the leaves and Stem and Root Rot caused by over-watering.","Use a well-aerated fast-draining potting soil for a Hoya plant. Add a little sand to the soil to loosen it up even more if the soil seems heavy..","Pot size for a Hoya Plant should be no larger that 1""-2"" bigger than the root ball.","Never totally cut off the old stems of a Hoya Shooting Stars Plant since this is where the new flowers develop.","Hoya Plants are easy to propagate using stem clippings from the new vines.","Although not considered poisonous , Hoya Plants can make dogs and cats ill if they eat a large number of leaves.."
"150","Jade Plant","CRASSULA OVATA","Jade plants need very bright light . Some jade plant varieties even develop red edges on their leaves when exposed to bright sunlight.","These are Succulent Plant s that have the ability to store water in their leaves, stems and roots. Water well and then allow the soil to dry out before watering again. Over- watering causes the leaves to fall off and the stems to become soft and mushy.","Feed every 2 weeks from the end of June through August with a liquid fertilizer that has been diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Feed monthly in April, May, and June. Do not feed at all  October-March. I like to use a plant food designed for Succulent Plants.","Jade plants prefer temperatures between 75degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (24degrees-27degrees Celsius) during the day and about 15degrees cooler at night, but can tolerate lower temperatures of about 45degrees to 55degrees F (7.2degrees-12.8degrees Celsius) in the winter. Temperatures below 45degrees Fahrenheit (7degrees C) can damage the leaves.","Low Humidity","Healthy, mature Jade plants usually bloom around Christmas in the northern hemisphere. Blooming is triggered by the natural shortening of the daylight hours. If your jade plant is in a room that gets any light at all at night during late November and December, it will probably not bloom.","Mealy Bugs , Spider Mites, scale - these pests hide under leaves and on hidden stems making them difficult to see. Spray the plant with the green solution (recipe found in the Glossary).","Bacterial soft rot (usually due to over watering), powdery mildew , and black ring disease","Jade plants need a soil that drains quickly to prevent root rot. A cactus mix with some added organic matter works well.","","If leaves fall off and branches are bare (usually due to over -watering), stop watering and cut off the bare stems to help the plant become bushy again.","Propagate using leaf and Stem Cuttings. Allow the stem or leaf to sit out over night and form a callus on the cut area before using it for propagation. Use a small 4"" pot with a loose quick draining soil. Lay the leaf onto the soil or insert the stem into the soil. Water the potting mixture, after that, water sparingly until the leaf or stem puts out roots. Placing the plant in a clear plastic bag increases the humidity and helps the leaves root faster.","Jade plants are slightly poisonous and have a level #1 toxicity for humans. However, a jade plant is more toxic when eaten by animals, especially dogs, and can cause vomiting and heart rate issues."
"161","Jasmine Plant","JASMINUM POLYANTHUM","A jasmine plant likes bright indirect light throughout the year, and in the winter benefits from a few hours of direct sun. However, avoid putting a jasmine plant in the direct sun during the summer, the intensity of the sun will burn the leaves. Try moving your jasmine plant outside for the summer, the plant will love it.","Jasmine plants loses leaves and leaves dry up from both too much and too little water. In the spring and summer, keep the soil moist but never soggy. The top 30% of the soil should dry out before watering. Soil that stays too wet, too long, damages the roots of the plant and eventually prevents the roots from absorbing water at all. When you do water, water well enough so that the water comes out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Do not allow the plant to sit in this excess water. During the fall and winter, keep a jasmine plant on the drier side.","Feed a jasmine plant every 2-4 weeks from March-August when the plant is actively growing. Do not feed during the fall and winter when the plant is dormant. Jasmine plants prefer a water soluble plant food high in phosphorous and low in nitrogen. This type of fertilizer helps produce more flowers.","Jasmine plants do well in cool rooms where the temperature is 65degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-21.1degrees Celsius) and the light is very bright. If the room is too warm, a jasmine plant grows but doesn't produce any flowers. These plants, like most houseplants, do poorly when placed near heaters, hot air vents, and fireplaces.","These plants thrive in high humidity. You can place a jasmine plant on a wet pebble tray (be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water), put a small humidifier near the plant, or group your plants together to increase the humidity.","Like poinsettias and Christmas cactus, jasmine plants need cool temperatures and short days to set their fragrant flower buds. In the late fall, temperatures at night should be 45degrees-55degrees. During the day, keep the plants in very bright light . At night, try to keep the plant in total darkness. An indoor jasmine plant usually flowers in January and February.","Jasmine plants attract Aphids , Mealy Bugs , scale , and spider mites.","Since these plants like high humidity and moist soil, fungal diseases can be a problem. Keeping a jasmine plant in very bright light helps prevent some of these diseases, as does good air circulation and dry leaves.","Jasmine plants grow well in a basic houseplant soil that drains well but still retains water. Twice a year add some lime, as a supplement, to the soil.","The plant produces more flowers when it is root-bound. If the soil is drying out in just 2-3 days, it may be time to move your plant to the next size pot.","Prune a jasmine plant after it has finished blooming to maintain its size and shape. Never prune after the beginning of August since this is when a jasmine plant starts to set its flower buds.","Propagate a jasmine plant from Stem Cuttings in the spring. Rea more about propagation techniques in the Glossary of the website.","The flowers of a true jasmine plant (Oleaceae) are nontoxic. The flowers of the false jasmine plant (Loganiaceae) such as Yellow Jasmine or Carolina Jasmine are very poisonous . If you are unsure whether you have a true or false jasmine plant always err on the side of caution and keep the plant away from children and animals"
"162","Kalanchoe Plant","KALANCHOE BLOSSFELDIANA","Kalanchoe plants need bright indirect light and can even tolerate direct sun during the fall, winter, and spring. Direct sun in the summer is too intense and burns the leaves. The blooms on kalanchoe plants are photo-periodically induced. As the days get shorter and kalanchoes experience longer periods of darkness, they produce more flowers.","Kalanchoes are Succulent Plant s with plump leaves that store water for long periods of time. These plants are easily over-watered which causes root-rot. Always allow the top 50% of the soil to dry-out before watering. If the soil is exceptionally dry, sit the plant in a deep saucer of water for about ten minutes. This not only prevents over-watering but keeps the leaves dry. Wet leaves encourage plant diseases such as leaf spot or powdery mildew .","Fertilize monthly when kalanchoes are actively growing with a plant food high in nitrogen diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. If the soil is very dry, moisten the soil with plain water before fertilizing; this prevents the plant food from burning the roots.","Indoor kalanchoe plants like warm temperatures between 60degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-18.3degrees Celsius). Low temperatures below 40degrees Fahrenheit (4.4degrees Celsius) can damage or kill a kalanchoe within a few hours. Keep kalanchoes away from cold drafts and open windows during the winter.","Kalanchoes grow well in regular to low household humidity. When the humidity is too high, these plants develop plant diseases such as leaf spot or powdery mildew .","Remove faded blooms as soon as they appear to encourage more flowers. Starting in October, keep a kalanchoe plant in total darkness at night for up to 14 hours and then place it in bright indirect light during the day. This encourages the plant to flower.","Kalanchoe houseplants are fairly pest resistant. When placed outdoors for the summer, they attract mites, scale , and Aphids . Kalanchoes are very sensitive to chemical insecticides. When treating them for a plant pest infestation use the "" green solution "", yellow sticky cards , insecticidal soap , or Neem Oil . You can read about all of these products in the Glossary of the website.","These plants are prone to Leaf Spot Disease and powdery mildew . The best way to prevent these plant diseases is to keep the leaves dry and provide good air circulation.","Use a light soil composed of peat moss, sand, and perlite that drains well. When using a basic store bought potting soil, be sure to add an equal amount of sander good drainage.","Kalanchoes are available in 4"" and 6"" pots. They rarely need to be in a container larger than 8"" wide and 6"" deep. Kalanchoe containers must have drip holes in the bottom so excess water can drain out.","Remove dead or dying flowers as soon as they appear. Cut back bare stems to keep a kalanchoe full and bushy.","Stem Cuttings , plant division , and offsets are the best way to propagate kalanchoe plants. When using Stem Cuttings be sure to allow the cut end of the stems to dry for 24 hours before planting it. This prevents the cuttings from developing root rot.","Kalanches are poisonous plants. They belong to a group of plants that contain naturally-occurring poisons that affect the heart. The toxins in kalanchoe plants are similar to digitalis or digoxin a common heart medication used in both human and veterinary medicine. The severity of the poisoning depends upon the amount of plant eaten. All parts of the plant are considered toxic, even the water in the vase of cut kalanchoe flowers is dangerous."
"163","Kangaroo Paw Fern","MICROSORUM DIVERSIFOLIUM","Medium to bright indirect light . Keep in the shade outside.","Water a kangaroo paw fern when the top 50% of the soil has dried out. When watering, give the plant enough water so that it drains out the bottom drip holes. I don't recommend misting this or any other houseplant because keeping the leaves wet encourages bacterial and fungus infections.","Fertilize once a month in the spring and summer with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. You can also use an organic fish emulsion. Kangaroo paw ferns should never be fertilized in the fall and winter. Ferns do not require much plant food so when in doubt, don't feed.","These ferns like warm temperatures 70degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees-23.9degrees Celsius) in the spring, summer, and fall, but prefer cooler temperatures 60degrees-65degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-18.3degrees Celsius) and brighter light in the winter.","High humidity is best, but a kangaroo paw fern still does well in lower household humidity.","","scale , Aphids , Mealy Bugs . Ferns are very sensitive to insecticides, so try to use warm, soapy water or the green solution (recipe in Glossary).","Not many diseases affect kangaroo paw ferns. In very humid conditions, bacterial or fungal infections may occur.","Use a porous coarse soil that drains well.","Repot in the spring if the roots have filled the existing pot.","Remove dead fronds as soon as they appear; cut the dead fronds off at the soil line. Clean the leaves with a damp cloth.","Kangaroo paw ferns can be propagated using many techniques: spores, rhizome division, layering, and plantlets. Fern propagation should be done in the spring before the plant starts to actively produce new growth.","These are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"164","Kentia Palm","HOWEA FORSTERIANA","A Kentia palm can survive in low light conditions, but grows better and develops more fronds in medium indirect light.","Water a Kentia palm well and then allow the top 25% of soil to dry out before watering again. Over-watering, resulting in root-rot, is the major reason Kentia palms die. Kentias, like most indoor palms, are sensitive to salt, fluoride, and chlorine in the water. Allow your water to sit out over night before using it or use distilled water if your household water has a high chemical concentration. Never use water that has passed through a softener, it is too salty.","A Kentia Palm is a slow growing plant and only needs to fertilized monthly in the spring and summer when it is actively growing. Use a balanced houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Keep the room temperature between 65 and 85 degrees for a Kentia Palm.","A Kentia Palm does well in basic household humidity.","","Kentia palms can get spider mites and Mealy Bugs. Since Palm fronds are easily damaged, never use any product containing alcohol. Use a biodegradable soap solution to treat houseplant pests. If this doesn't eliminate the plant pests on a Kentia Palm, try an insecticidal soap or Neem Oil.","","Use a well-aerated potting soil that drains quickly but still retains water; add sand if the soil appears heavy and claylike.","","","Kentia Palms are propagated by seeds. This is a difficult process best left to the experts.","A Kentia Palm is a non- poisonous plant."
"165","Kimberly Queen Fern","NEPHROLEPSIS OBLITERATA","A Kimberly queen fern does well in medium light. Like a Boston fern, hanging one in front of a window with a northern exposure provides it with enough light to grow well, but not so much that the leaves lose their vibrant green color.","Allow the top 25%-35% of the soil to dry-out before watering. The long fronds (leaves) may even turn a pale green when the fern needs water. Crispy brown fronds, especially in the center of the fern, mean the plant is over-watered. Avoid watering with ""hard water,"" or water that has a lot of salt, fluorine, or chlorine in it.","Feed monthly with a balanced liquid plant food when a Kimberly Queen fern is actively growing. Dilute the plant food 1/4 to 1/2 the recommended strength to prevent the ends of the fronds from burning and turning brown.","60degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (15.5degrees-21.1degrees Celsius) Keep away from fireplaces, heaters, and air conditioners.","Ferns prefer high humidity which is rarely available in our homes or offices. If your fern leaf tips turn brown because of low humidity, try setting the plant on a wet pebble tray. Be sure the fern is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. You can also place a small humidifier in the room.","","Aphids, Mealy Bugs, and spider mites. Pesticides damage fern ferns, use a mild solution of soapy water to prevent and treat pest infestations.","These ferns are fairly disease resistant.","Use is a good, indoor potting soil with a little extra peat moss added to help it drain quickly.","Repot to the next size pot when the roots have filled the existing pot. Ferns do well when root-bound so do not rush to repot. Do not fertilize a fern for several weeks after re-potting.","Cut dead Leaves (fronds) off as soon as they appear. Dead leaves on any houseplant should immediately be removed since they drain energy from the plant.","plant division: Carefully pull the root ball in half or in quarters. Plant the sections in small pots to prevent over-watering.","Non- poisonous plant"
"166","Lipstick Plant","AESCHYNANTH","Lipstick plants require very bright indirect light . Direct sun burns the leaves.","These plants flower more frequently and more abundantly if you allow the top 25% of the soil dry out before watering. If the leaves of a lipstick plant appear soft and shriveled, give the plant more water. These plants lose green leaves when they are over-watered.","Feed every other week in the spring and summer, and monthly in the fall and winter with a houseplant food high in phosphorous. Always dilute the fertilizer to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Lipstick plants like warm temperatures between 75degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (23.9degrees- 29.4degrees Celsius)","Although a lipstick plant prefers high humidity, it does well in basic household humidity.","Lipstick plants placed in a bright location produce beautiful, small, reddish orange flowers throughout the year. Stressing a lipstick plant by allowing the soil to dry out encourages it to bloom.","Mealy Bugs , spider mites, Aphids , and thrip s are houseplant pests that attack lipstick plants. Examine your plant every time you water to catch insect problems early.","Lipstick plants can develop fungal diseases when in an area of high humidity.","Use a balanced well-aerated houseplant mix that drains quickly.","Keeping lipstick plants in small pots helps them produce more flowers. When you put this plant in a large container, instead of producing flowers it grows more leaves.","Trim the long vines to prevent the plant from becoming thin and straggly.","Lipstick plants are easily propagated using 4"" stem tip cuttings from the newest vines.","Lipstick plants are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"167","Lucky Bamboo Plant","DRACAENA SANDERIANA","A Lucky Bamboo plant can survive in medium and even lower light, but does much better in bright indirect light . Pale leaves indicate the plant is not getting enough light. Avoid placing a Lucky Bamboo plant in the direct sun.","Watering a Lucky Bamboo plant takes a little time and care. Keep the marbles and pebbles in your vase covered with water at all times. Add water to the container weekly to keep the proper level . Once a month remove the Lucky Bamboo plant from the water, rinse the roots, pebbles, and marbles with fresh water, and then put the arrangement back together. Avoid using water high in fluoride or chlorine.","Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer with an African Violet plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Excessive fertilizer causes the leaves to turn yellow.","Lucky Bamboo Plants do best in warm temperatures between 70degrees-85degrees( 21degrees-29degrees Celsius)","Basic household humidity","A Lucky Bamboo plant produces flowers that only appear at night. The blooms are made up of many small flowers and have a slight scent.","A Lucky Bamboo plant attracts unwanted insects if placed outdoors but is pest resistant indoors.","Lucky Bamboo plants are prone to fungal infections that turn the stalks yellow and cause them to die.","Lucky Bamboo plants can also be planted in a loose quick-draining soil as well as kept in a vase of water. If using soil always allow the top few inches to dry out before watering.","","Remove off-shoots to preserve the intricate shape of the plant; new growth develops from these cut areas. You can limit new growth by covering the cut areas with paraffin.","Propagate Lucky Bamboo using cane cuttings .","A Lucky Bamboo plant has a #1 toxicity level and is considered to be a mildly to moderately poisonous plant, especially to dogs and cats."
"168","Maidenhair Fern","ADIANTUM RADDIANUM","A maidenhair fern prefers bright indirect light but still grows slowly in medium light. It can handle early morning sun, but afternoon sun burns the fronds.","Keep the soil moist but not soggy and never allow it to totally dry out. If the soil is too wet, a maidenhair fern develops root rot and fungal diseases.","Feed every 2 weeks during the late fall and early spring (Sept-March) with a liquid fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. These plants love fish emulsions a plant food.","Maidenhair ferns need consistent temperatures. They can handle warmth or cold, but prefer warm areas. Never place a maidenhair fern where the temperature fluctuates constantly.","As with temperature, consistent humidity is very important. Maidenhair ferns prefer high humidity but do not like to be misted. Placing them on a pebble tray filled with water is the best solution. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. Dry air causes the leaflets on the fronds to shrivel.","","Aphids , Mealy Bugs , and scale are attracted to these ferns. Rinse the entire plant in soapy water to treat a pest infestation.","Because maidenhair ferns like high humidity, gray mold can be a problem.","Use a very rich, quick-draining soil.","These plants like to be in a small pot. Don't move a maidenhair fern to a larger pot until its roots have filled the existing pot.","Quickly remove any dead or dying fronds; they drain the plant's energy and slow down growth.","In nature, maidenhair ferns are propagated by the tiny spores released from the underside of their leaves. Indoors, try plant division in the spring to start new ferns.","A maidenhair fern is a non- poisonous plant."
"169","Majesty Palm","RAVENEA RIVULARIS","A Majesty palm needs very bright indirect light at all times. Inadequate light causes yellow frond (leaves).","The soil of a majesty palm should be consistently moist but not soggy. Never let the soil totally dry out. Never allow the plant to sit in the excess water that drains out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Brown tips and fronds are telling you that the plant needs more water. Yellow leaf tips is an indication that the plant has been over-watered.","A majesty palm requires a great deal of fertilizer . Not enough plant food is another reason the plant gets yellow leaves. Feed every two weeks when the plant is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Majesty palms do well in temperatures between 45degrees Fahrenheit-85degrees Fahrenheit ( 7.2degrees Celsius-29.4degrees Celsius). Try to keep this palm away from cold drafts or heating vents.","Majesty palms like high humidity, but still grow fairly well in basic household humidity.","","Spider mites are the main pest problem. Spray the fronds of a majesty palm with warm soapy water every few weeks to prevent them. If spider mites do appear, treat the plant with Neem Oil or an insecticidal soap .","The high humidity that these plant like encourages bacterial and fungal infections. Keep the leaves dry, do not mist the plant, and provide good air circulation around the plant.","Use a rich soil that drains quickly. If using a basic houseplant soil mix try adding some sand.","Majesty palms are usually found in 10"" pots or larger.","Fertilize about 7-10 days before you plan to prune the plant. This encourages new growth at the pruning site. Always use very sharp scissors or cutting shears when pruning any houseplant. Quickly prune any yellow fronds as well as any leaves that show signs of fungal or bacterial infection at the base of the frond stem. Prune fronds at the bottom of a palm plant to encourage growth at the top of the plant.","Majesty palms are propagated from seeds. Since they are inexpensive to purchase, it's easier to let the experts handle propagation.","A majesty palm is a non- poisonous plant."
"170","Marble Queen Pothos","EPIPREMNUM AUREUM","A marble queen pothos survives in low light but looks better and grows faster in medium to bright indirect light . When the light is too low, the white swirls on the leaves revert to green on the new growth.","Marble queen pothos like their soil to be kept on the dry side. During the spring and summer, water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. During the fall and winter, let the soil get almost totally dry before watering. If in doubt, wait for the leaves to become soft and droop a little before you water. Black leaves indicate over watering while bright yellow leaves mean the plant has gotten a bit too dry before you watered.","Feed every other month with a plant food high in nitrogen diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","The best temperature is between 65degrees Fahrenheit-85degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees Celsius-29.4degrees Celsius) The leaves may be damaged if the temperature drops below 55degrees Fahrenheit ( 12.8degrees Celsius).","Marble Queen pothos grow well in basic household humidity.","","All pothos plants are relatively pest free. thrip s and Mealy Bugs may be a problem and can be treated with the "" green solution "" (recipe in the Glossary the website).","Bacterial Leaf Spot Disease causes dark spots with yellow halos. Keeping the leaves dry helps prevent bacterial diseases. Root rot and stem rot fungal diseases cause stems and roots to become mushy and die. These problems need to be treated with a commercial Fungicide and correcting how you are watering the plant.","Use a well-aerated, quick-draining potting soil; if the soil is heavy and doesn't drain well, add a little sand to the mix.","A marble queen pothos likes to be root-bound in a small pot. When the roots have filled the existing pot, move to the NEXT size pot and nothing larger.","Aggressively trim the long vines every few months to keep your plant full and bushy. You can use the stem tip clippings to easily start new plants.","Stem tip cuttings are a very simple way to propagate a marble queen pothos and all other pothos varieties.","A marble queen pothos is very poisonous with a #2 toxicity level . Pets that eat stems or leaves of the plant may exhibit vomiting, pawing at the mouth, lack of appetite, and drooling."
"181","Mimosa Pudica Plant","MIMOSA PUDICA","Sensitive Plants, Mimosa pudica, require bright light and even direct sun in the early morning.","Keep the soil of a Sensitive Plant moist but never soggy. A Mimosa Pudica requires less water during the winter. Sensitive Plants thrive on rain water if it is not acidic. A Sensitive Plant needs less water in the winter months.","Feed a Sensitive Plant every two weeks in the spring and summer with a plant food high in potassium. Diilute the plant food for a sensitive Plant to 1/2 the recommended strength. A tomato plant food works well on Sensitive Plants.","Sensitive Plants like temperatures between 60degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (16degrees-29degrees Celsius).","Sensitive Plants require high humidity to look their best. Place Sensitive Plants on a wet pebble tray to increase the humidity but be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","A Mimosa Pudica, Sensitive Plant, produces small, pink, powder-puff like flowers in the summer. When kept indoors as a houseplant, a Sensitive Plant may never bloom but its leaves will still open and close.","When used as a houseplant, a Sensitive Plant is not usually bothered by plant pests. Spider Mites are the only insects to watch for.","Because a Sensitive Plant thrives in high humidity, it is prone to fungal houseplant diseases such as Pyrethrum Blight and Fusarium.","Use any good potting soil that drains well for a Sensitive Plant. If the potting soil appears heavy or clay like, add some Builders Sand to it.","Sensitive Plants rarely need to be re-potted.","A Sensitive Plant should be pruned regularly to keep it full and prevent it from becoming leggy looking. You can prune a Sensitive Plant any time of the year.","Sensitive Plants are propagated by Stem Cuttings in the spring and summer.","Mimosa Pudica or Sensitive Plant has a level #4 toxicity and is a very poisonous houseplant. Always wash your hands with soapy water after touching the leaves of a Mimosa pudica."
"182","Miniature Rose Bush Plant","R. CHINENSIS MINIMA","A miniature rose bush plant needs very bright light. If you don't have a place in your home where the plant can get several hours of direct sun, move the rose bush outdoors into the sun for a few hours each day once the danger of a frost is over. When there is not enough light, rose bushes don't bloom, the stems start to stretch to the light, and leaves are far apart.","A miniature rose bush requires a great deal of water, especially when it is flowering. Since these plants are usually purchased in small pots, be sure to check the soil every few days. Allow the top 1"" (2.5cm) of soil to dry out before watering. During the winter, when a miniature rose bush plant is resting, keep the soil barely moist. Be careful not to get water on the leaves; wet leaves often cause a fungus called Black Spot to develop.","Feed every two weeks in the spring and summer when the plant is actively growing. Use a fertilizer that is high in phosphorous (5-10-5) at 1/2 the recommended strength.","Miniature rose bush plants do well in temperatures between 60degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (16degrees-24degrees Celsius). These plants are very susceptible to frost damage.","Moderate to high humidity helps the plant to grow well. If your home is dry, especially in the winter, place a miniature r bush plant on a tray of wet pebbles. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","Remove dead blooms as soon as they appear; this helps the plant bloom for a longer period of time. Always use a sharp pruner or scissors to cut off the flowers, never just pull them off with your fingers. Tearing the stems of a miniature rose bush, rather than cutting them at a 45degrees angle, damages the stem and encourages diseases. Once the plant finishes blooming and the weather warms up, move it outdoors, but be sure to bring it back inside once the temperature goes below freezing.","Spider mites and Mealy Bugs are two houseplant pests that can infest an indoor rose bush. Rinse the leaves once a week with a mild, soapy, water solution to help prevent infestations and keep the plant dust-free.","If the soil is kept too damp, miniature rose bush plants, like their bigger outdoor cousins, develop a fungal plant disease called black spot. Immediately remove the infected leaves and treat the plant with a Fungicide recommended for black spot disease .","","If there is more than one plant in your pot, remove the plants from the container, gently separate the roots of the two plants, and replant them into their own pots. Use as much of the original soil as possible and be sure all pots have proper drainage holes. When the pot of a miniature rose bush plant is too large, the plant doesn't grow and root rot develops.","Remove dead branches and any other branches that may be rubbing against each other. Once the plant has finished blooming in the fall, prune the rose bush to encourage new growth during the next season.","You can propagate using stem tip cuttings in the early summer. Use a 4"" (10cm) piece of a healthy stem, dip the cut end in Rooting Hormone, and plant it in a small pot of moist potting soil. Set the plant in a clear plastic bag to increase the humidity while it is rooting.","Miniature rose bush plants are non- poisonous plants."
"183","Moses in the Cradle Plant","TRADESCANTIA SPATHACEA","Moses in the Cradle plants need very bright light for at least 6-8 hours a day.","Allow the top inch or two of soil to dry out before watering. Keep the soil drier during the winter when all houseplants, not just a Moses in the Cradle, are not actively growing.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer with a well balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","60degrees-85degrees F (16degrees-19degrees Celsius) during the day and a little cooler at night.","Moses in the cradle prefer high humidity. Place a small humidifier nearby or place your Moses in the Cradle plant on a tray of wet pebbles. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. I'm not a fan of misting plants since this often encourages pests and diseases.","These plants produce small flowers tucked inside the leaves.","Spider mites and Mealy Bugs : You can see a picture of these insects and learn how to treat them in the Glossary of the website","Because Moses in Cradle plants like high humidity, root rot and Leaf Spot Disease are a problem. Read about Leaf Spot Disease and see what it looks like in the Glossary of the website.","Use a potting soil that retains moisture yet drains quickly so that the roots are not always wet.","Spring is a good time to re-pot your plant if the roots have filled the existing pot. When re-potting any houseplant, always use the next size pot and nothing larger. You don't want the soil to stay wet too long and cause root rot.","I recommend vigoroulsy pruning in the spring to keep the plant full and bushy. Always wear gloves since the sap in the plant is toxic and very irritating.","Propagate by plant division or Stem Cuttings . Rea more about these and other propagation techniques in the Glossary.","Moses in the Cradle plants are poisonous plants with a #3 toxicity level . The sap causes severe pain in the mouth and minor skin irritations that last a few minutes."
"184","Natal Mahogany Plant","TRICHILIA EMETICA","Natal Mahogany houseplants like medium light but will even grow in lower light. These plants become leggy and thin in very low light .","Natal Mahogany plants thrive on water and are very forgiving when you over-water. These plants prefer their soil to be consistently moist, but not soggy, at all times. Place a saucer under a Natal Mahogany plant to hold extra water.","A Natal Mahogany HousePlant is a fast grower and should be fed monthly in the Fall and Winter and every other week in the Spring and Summer.","A Natal Mahogany can survive temperatures as low as 45degrees Fahrenheit (7.2degrees Celsius). In temperatures above 80degrees Fahrenheit (26.7degrees Celsius) check the soil frequently so the plant does not dry out.","These plants do well in basic household humidity.","","Mealy Bugs and scale are houseplant pests that attack Mahogany Plants.","","","A Natal Mahogany is usually sold in pot a 10"" or larger. It may need to moved to a larger pot about every 18-24 months; this is best done during the spring or summer. The new pot should be only 2""-4"" larger than the roots ball.","Prune a Natal Mahogany aggressively to keep in full and bushy.","","The outer coating of the seeds of a Natal Mahogany plant are poisonous"
"185","Norfolk Island Pine","ARAUCARIA HETEROPHYLLA","Norfolk Island Pines require very bright light , even some direct sun. Bottom branches fall off when it doesn't get enough light. You'll need to turn the plant weekly so all parts of the plant get good light.","Keep the soil of a Norfolk Island Pine moist at all times. Yellow needles can indicate that the soil is too wet or too dry. If the soil completely dries out, entire fronds turn gray, brittle, and fall off.","Feed a Norfolk Pine every other week in the spring, summer, and fall. Use a well- balanced liquid plant fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Do not feed during the winter.","Norfolk Island Pines prefer temperatures between 60-75degrees Fahrenheit (16-24degrees Celsius) but will survive temperatures as low as 40degrees Fahrenheit (4.4degrees Celsius).","High humidity is important. Dry air causes the needles on a Norfolk Pine to fall off. Keep the plant away from cold drafts, air conditioning vents, and heating vents.","","The main houseplant insect to look out for is Mealy Bug. You can recognize the problem by the white, sticky, cottony, residue these pests leave on the plant.","","Use a good potting soil that retains moisture.","Don't be in a rush to re-pot a Norfolk Island Pine. These plants are slow growers and only need larger containers every 2-3 years.","Norfolk Island Pines do not need to be pruned or shaped. Remove any dead branches from the bottom of the tree.","Norfolk Island Pines can be propagated by seeds. If the existing plant is thin and straggly and you want to start a new plant, cut 4"" off the top of the stem. This will include the star shaped foliage that gives the tree its nickname, Star Pine. Plant the cutting in a small container of rich potting soil and keep moist.","If the needles of a Norfolk Pine are ingested by pets or children, they cause severe stomach irritation. I'd recommend keeping this plant far away from children and pets especially around Christmas when things are hectic and accidents happen."
"186","Orchid - Cymbidium","CYMBIDIUM ORCHIDACEAE","Cymbidium orchids like as much bright, indirect light as you can provide; but avoid placing them in the direct sun. Light green upright leaves indicate that your orchid plant is getting the proper amount of light. Dark green leaves mean a Cymbidium orchid needs more light. Yellow leaves are an indication that they are getting too much light.","The easiest way to kill Cymbidium orchid plants is by over-watering. When watering, thoroughly drench the plant, then let the excess water drain out the bottom drip holes. Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. You can prevent over and under-watering by checking the roots, they should be whitish- green and plump. Follow these few watering tips to prevent watering problems. Never allow orchid plants sit in water. Do not get water on the leaves or flowers. Never use water that has passed through a softener. Soil type, temperature, time of year, humidity, and pot size all influence how much water orchid plants need. The soil dries out faster in winter because of the heat and low humidity in homes and offices. Too much or too little water is the main cause of Bud Blast, orchid buds dying before they open.","Fertilize weakly, weekly when an orchid plant is actively growing. Dilute your plant food to 1/3-1/4 the recommended strength. Do not feed an orchid plant when it is dormant or when the plant is in bloom. There are excellent orchid plant foods on the market. You can also use a well- balanced houseplant food at 1/3-1/4 the recommended strength.","Temperature is another important factor if you want indoor Cymbidium orchids to bloom. Ideal temperatures for the flower buds to set is 65degrees Fahrenheit-70degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees Celsius-21.1degrees Celsius) during the day and 10degrees-15degrees cooler at night. Temperature is especially important during the fall when orchid flowers are just starting to develop. Cymbidium plants can handle temperatures as low as 45degrees Fahrenheit (7degrees C), but do not do well in temperatures above 80degrees F (26.7degrees Celsius). The higher the temperature, the more important it is to have good air movement around the plant.","High humidity is a necessity. If your home or office does not have at least 50% humidity, place your orchid plant on a wet pebble tray. Be sure it is sitting on the pebbles and never in the water. Do not mist an orchid plant; it can cause fungal and bacterial plant diseases.","One of the nicest things about Cymbidium orchids is that they bloom in the winter when other indoor plant do not. The flower spikes on Cymbidium orchids set during the fall and winter when temperature are about 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius) at night. Once the flower spikes appear, don't move your Cymbidium orchid or keep the room too warm until the buds open. Blooms last longer when temperatures stay between 60degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-21.1degrees Celsius). Be sure to stake the flower spikes so the blooms are above the leaves of the plant. Do not fertilize orchid plants while they are in bloom.","Mealy Bugs can be removed using a Qtip dipped in alcohol. Wipe orchid plants with a soft cloth dipped in soapy water to remove spider mites, Aphids , or scale . You can also use Neem Oil or insecticidal soap .","Cymbidium orchid diseases are caused by a fungus or virus. These plant diseases can quickly spread to others plants if you're not careful. Viruses appear as pale streaks in the leaves. As the problem worsens, the leaves become pitted and bleached-out looking. Fungal infections cause yellow, brown, and then black leaves. Roots develop black spotted areas and the orchid cannot absorb water. Fungal infections on indoor orchid plant are the result of over- watering, poor air circulation, and wet foliage. Keep infected plants away from other plants or throw them out. Sterilize your scissors, knives, or other tools with alcohol before going from plant to plant. Treat fungal diseases with Fungicides sold at local garden stores. Another way to treat Cymbidium orchid diseases is by using the Bordeaux Solution, a mixture of water, hydrated lime, and copper sulfate.","Cymbidium orchid plants need a special orchid soil or potting medium. Never use regular houseplant soil. Proper orchid planting medium contains peat moss, bark compost, and osmunda fiber. The right plant soil be found at any garden center.","Many of the new hybrid Cymbidium orchid plants are small enough to grow in 5""- 6"" pots that can fit on a windowsill. Orchid plants like to be root-bound so don’t rush to move them to a larger container. Use clay or plastic pots for orchids. Be sure any pot you use has drainage holes. When re-potting a Cymbidium orchid shake off the excess soil and throw away any pseudobulbs that are shriveled and dried up.","Once the flowers die, find the nodes on the flower spike. Cut the spike off 1"" above the 3rd node from the bottom. Immediately remove dead or diseased parts on the plant or they will attract pests and diseases.","Propagate Cymbidium orchid plants in the spring when the plant has finished blooming. As orchid plants mature, they produce pseudobulbs. Pseudobulbs store water and nutrients and new plant leaves emerge from them. Cymbidium orchid plants should be divided every three or four years. To propagate these orchids, gently split the pseudo bulbs apart. Each section should have at least three healthy pseudobulbs. Center the orchid bulbs in the new container with the lower 1/3 of the bulb below the soil. The container should be only an inch or two larger than the pseudo bulb cluster.","Cymbidium orchid plants are non- poisonous."
"187","Orchid Plant - Phalaenopsis","ORCHIDACEAE","There is an orchid plant for almost any lighting condition, but none like being in the direct sun. If an area is too dark, the leaves turn dark green instead of the grassy yellow green they should be and the orchid plant doesn't bloom. If there is too much light, the leaves turn yellow and develop sunspots. A location near an east or west-facing window is usually the best location. Most orchid plants prefer about 10 hours of light a day.","The easiest way to kill any Orchid Plant is by over-watering. Always allow the top 50% of the potting compost to dry out before watering. Check the roots of an Orchid Plant monthly to be sure they are staying whitish green and plump. Set the plant in a deep saucer of water for about 30 minutes so it can absorb water through the drip holes in the bottom on the pot. Use tepid water that has not passed through a softener (too salty). If your household water has a lot of chemicals in it, allow the water to sit out over night before using it. Type of soil, temperature, time of year, humidity, and pot size all influence an orchid plant's watering needs. Orchids dry out a little faster in the winter because of the heat in your home and low humidity.","Fertilize weakly, weekly when an orchid plant is actively growing. Dilute your plant food to 1/3-1/4 the recommended strength. Do not feed an orchid plant when it is dormant or when the plant is in bloom. There are excellent orchid plant foods on the market. You can also use a well- balanced houseplant food at 1/3-1/4 the recommended strength.","Orchid plants do well when the temperature is 65degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (18degrees-26degrees C) during the day and 15degrees cooler at night. In the fall, cool night temperatures help the flower spikes develop. Once the orchid buds appear try to keep the temperature constant or the buds may fall off.","High humidity, 50% or better, is essential. Setting an orchid plant in a stand and placing the stand in a tray filled with pebbles and water helps increase the humidity. Be sure the plant never sits directly in the water.","Orchid plants usually flower from December-May and the flowers can last several months. The spectacular blooms can be as small as 1"" or as large as 5"" depending upon the orchid variety. Try not to get water on the flowers.","Orchid plants are prone to Aphids , mealybug, scale , and spider mites. A good way to prevent insect infestations and diseases is to place an orchid where it gets good air circulation or is near a small fan. The slight breeze also encourages blooms to develop faster. The best ways to treat any insects or pests is to dab them off with a Qtip dipped in alcohol or wipe them off with a soft cloth dipped in soapy water.","Orchid plants are prone to viruses, bacterial infections, and fungal infections. Increasing the air circulation around an is very beneficial in preventing diseases..","Orchid plants require a special soil and should never be planted in regular potting soil, it is much too dense. Use a bark-based or peat based soil that retains water, drains well, and allows the roots to ""breathe."" Orchid plant soil should contain bark, sphagnum moss, and perlite. There are several commercial soils that are specifically for orchids.","Re-pot only if the potting medium has decomposed and is not draining quickly enough or if the orchid plant pseudobulbs have outgrown the pot. Remove the orchid from its old pot, shake off the soil around the pseudobulbs, place the plant in its new pot, and then fill in with the new potting mixture.","In nature, orchids get much of their food and water from the air, so never cut off any air roots that emerge from the soil. When the flower stalk turns yellow or brown, it's time to prune. Cut the stalk back to about an inch from where it originated on the main stem. Use a clean razor blade or very sharp knife when pruning. Always remove any dead or diseased sections immediately, otherwise these sick areas of the plant attract more pests and diseases. Another pruning method for is to wait until your plant has finished blooming, look for tiny bumps or nodes on the flower spike. Find the third node from the bottom and cut the spike off 1"" above that node. Pruning an orchid plant helps the plant to produce more flowers during the next season.","Orchid plants are propagated by plant division if they are sympodial, such as a Cattleya, or by Stem Cuttings if they are monopodeal, such as a Phaleonopsis.","Orchid plants are non- Poisonous Houseplants."
"188","Ornamental Pepper Plant","CAPSICUM ANNUUM","Very bright light, even full sun. Ornamental pepper plants start to reach for the light and become quite leggy if they don't get at least 6-8 hours of very bright light every day; near a south-facing window is a great location.","Keep the soil barely moist and water the surface of the soil evenly. Water well, until it comes out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot; then allow the top 20% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Do not allow the plant to sit in the excess water.","Feed every two weeks during the growing season with a liquid plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Use a plant food high in phosphorous and potassium (5-10-10); this ratio helps the flowers and fruit to develop. )ice the plant has developed fruit, stop fertilizing.","These plants like warm temperatures, above 75degrees Fahrenheit (23.9C) if possible. The warmer the temperature, the faster the plant grows and the fruits develop.","Basic household humidity","An Ornamental Pepper plant develops small white flowers before the fruit appears.","Aphids and spider mites can be a problem. Read more about how to identify and treat these pests in the Glossary of the website.","Leaf Spot and Wilt-diseases.","Use a rich organic soil that drains quickly. If the soil doesn't drain well and stays wet too long, the plant develops root rot","Indoors, an Ornamental pepper plant rarely needs a pot larger than 6"". Be sure there are drip holes in the bottom.","Pinching the top of the plant stems (just above a branching point) encourages the plant to branch out and become bushy and full.","Ornamental Pepper plants are propagated by seeds","Non- poisonous"
"189","Pachira Aquatica","","A Money Tree plant grows best in medium to bright indirect light . This plant even does well under fluorescent lights.","Water well and then allow the top 1""- 2"" of soil to dry out before watering again. A Pachira aquatica requires less water during the winter months when resting. Be sure to use a container with bottom drip holes to prevent over- watering and root rot. It's important to water the soil evenly.","Feed a Money Tree monthly in the spring and summer when it is producing new leaves. Use a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Fertilize every other month in the fall and winter when a Pachira aquatica is actively growing.","This plant prefers temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (16degrees-24degrees C.)","A Pachira aquatica likes high humidity. If the air in your home or office is dry, place the plant on a wet pebble tray to increase the humidity. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","","Pests to look out for are: Mealy Bugs , scale , and Aphids . Use the green solution (recipe in Glossary) diluted to 1/2 strength.","Be on the look out for Leaf spot, a fungal disease that causes leaf spots and other damage. The disease can be prevented by quickly removing any diseased leaves that fall off, watering well and then not watering again until the soil has dried out somewhat, and keeping the leaves dry. Commercial Fungicide sprays usually help control the problem.","Use a quick draining potting soil. If the soil is too heavy, add sand to the mix to help it drain faster.","Keeping a Money Tree in a small pot controls its size and is essential when growing a Pachira aquatica as a bonsai plant. If you want a taller and larger plant, repot as soon as the roots have filled the existing container.","Cut off a few of the larger leaves from the bottom of a Money Tree plant each month to encourage new growth at the top. Pinch back the growing tips at the ends of branches to keep the plant small.","The easiest ways to propagate a Pachira aquatica are by Stem Cuttings and air layering .","Money Tree plants are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"190","Parlor Palm","CHAMADOREA ELEGANS","Parlor Palms can grow in low light , but prefer medium, indirect light. Avoid putting palms in bright light and direct sun. Either too little or too much light can produce brown tips.","Water a Parlor Palm well, and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. The roots of the plant should never totally dry out. Water less during the winter when the plant is not actively growing. Brown leaf tips often indicate over watering, while yellow fronds tell you the plant needs a bit more water.","Parlor Palms do not need much plant food. Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer with a balanced liquid fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Do not feed a Parlor Palm in the fall and winter. Too much plant food causes ""fertilizer burn"" and can cause brown leaf tips.","Basic home and office temperatures: 62degrees-82degrees F (16.7degrees-27.8degrees Celsius).","Parlor Palms prefer high humidity. Dry air encourages spider mites to attack the plant.","As a Parlor Palm matures, and under ideal growing conditions, it sometimes produces stalks of small inconsequential yellow flowers followed by seeds. These seeds cannot be used to propagate a new plant since they are not fertile. I always cut the stalk off as soon as it appears.","Parlor Palms attract scale and mealybugs, but it is spider mites that are most common, especially when the air is very dry during the winter. These annoying pests suck the color out of the fronds. An insecticidal soap can be used to treat them.","Parlor palms get fungal and bacterial diseases such as leaf spot and root rot. Most times these are caused by an over watering problem.","Use a basic indoor potting soil that retains water but still drains quickly. Once the soil breaks down and becomes heavy and water logged, it is time to replace it with fresh soil.","Parlor Palms like to be a little root bound so don't rush to put them into larger containers. There should always be drip holes in any pot you use. Be careful when you repot. The roots are somewhat fragile and easily damaged.","Remove only the parts of the plant that turn brown or yellow as soon as they appear. A parlor palm grows from a terminal bud. Cutting off this terminal bud will prevent new growth. Cut frond (leaves) only. Do not cut the stems.","Parlor Palms are propagated by seeds, but it is a very difficult process, best left to the experts.","A Parlor Palm in a non- poisonous houseplant."
"201","Peace Lily Plant","SPATHIPHYLLUM","Peace Lily plants do well in low, medium, or indirect bright light. Too much light causes the leaves to fade and lose their vibrant dark green color. Too little light and Peace Lily plants can't develop flowers. Direct sunlight burns the leaves.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. If the leaves of a Peace Lily severely droop, yellow leaves develop once it's watered. Leaves turn a blackish brown from over- watering.","Fertilize every other month when a Peace Lily is actively growing with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Too much fertilizer burns the leaf tips.","Peace Lily plants grow well in 65degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-29.4degrees Celsius).","High humidity is a plus but not a necessity.","As Peace Lily plants mature, they produce more flowers. Brighter light also encourages more blooms.","Peace Lily plants may get Aphids , spider mites, and Mealy Bugs . Spraying with the green solution (recipe in the Glossary) not only gets rid of plant pests, it also removes dust and improves the appearance of the leaves.","Since Peace Lily plants prefer a humid environment, leaf spot, and other bacterial and fungal plant diseases can be a problem. Keeping the leaves dry, providing good air circulation around the plant, and avoiding overly wet soil helps prevent plant diseases.","Use a rich well-aerated potting soil that contains a good amount of peat or other organic material.","A Peace Lily should not be moved to the next size plant pot until the roots of the plant have almost filled the existing pot.","Once the flowers fade, prune the flower and its stem at the soil line. Every Peace Lily flower has it's own stem so that stem will not re-bloom. Pruning the flowers and stems helps the plant look better and encourages more flowers. Brown or yellow leaves should also be pruned at the base of their stem. If you want to trim the brown or yellow tips on the leaves of a Peace Lily, rather than removing the entire leaf, use a sharp wet scissors to make an angled cut below the discolored area.","Peace Lily plants are easily propagated by plant division .","Peace Lily plants are very poisonous with a #2 Toxicity level . Keep these plants away from pets and small children."
"202","Pencil Cactus Plant","EUPHORBIA TIRUCALLI","A Pencil Cactus plant requires very bright light and can even handle direct morning sun.","During the spring and summer allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. In the fall & winter water once a month. Pencil Cactus are very drought resistant, so when in doubt, do not water.","Feed at the beginning of spring and the beginning of summer with a balanced 20-20-20 fertilizer at 1/4 the recommended strength.","Likes warm temperatures between 65degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-21.1degrees Celsius) during most of the year. In the winter, when resting, a Pencil Cactus prefers cooler temperatures around 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius).","Basic household humidity","","Mealy Bugs , spider mites, and Aphids . Spray with my "" green solution "" (recipe in Glossary)","Pencil cacti are susceptible to phomopsis which is a fungal disease that causes gray ""wart like"" growths on the stems and root rot due to over watering.","Use a quick draining succulent or cactus soil to prevent over- watering.","A pencil cactus grows quickly and becomes quite a tall plant. It needs a good size sturdy pot and may need to be re-potted every year or two. Allow the soil in the pot to totally dry out before moving a Pencil Cactus to a new container.","Aggressively prune a Pencil cactus to keep it looking full. Always wear gloves and a long sleeved shirt when pruning the plant to prevent the irritating sap from getting on your skin.","A Pencil cactus is easily propagated using Stem Cuttings .","Pencil Cactus are very poisonous plants with a #4 toxicity level . The stems contain an irritating sap-like substance that oozes out of any cut or break in the stem. Not only should you wear gloves when working with a Pencil cactus , but you should wash your hands thoroughly with soap after removing the gloves. You don¿t want to risk getting sap in your eyes or mouth."
"203","Peperomia Plant","PEPEROMIA OBTUSIFOLIA","Peperomia plants grow well in the bright, indirect light provided by a west or east-facing window. These plants even grow under fluorescent lights. Insufficient light causes the slow growing peperomia plant to stop growing all together. Direct sunlight burns the leaves.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before you water. Over-watering, resulting in root-rot, is the main cause of serious peperomia plant problems. It's best to water these plants from the bottom. This technique keeps the leaves dry and helps prevent plant diseases. The thick leaves of peperomia plants hold water and allow the plant to withstand long periods without moisture.","Fertilize monthly in the spring and summer with a balanced houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. It's not necessary to feed a peperomia plant in the fall and winter.","Warm temperatures between 60degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-26.7degrees Celsius) are best. Temperatures below 50degrees-55degrees F (10degrees-12.8degrees Celsius) and cold drafts from windows and doors damage peperomia plant leaves.","Peperomia plants are originally from the rain forests of Brazil and like a warm, humid environment.","The flowers of peperomia plants are very small and inconsequential. It's the leaves of certain varieties that are so interesting.","Houseplant pests such as Mealy Bugs and Aphids can be a problem.","Ringspot, a virus that marks the leaves with unsightly round marks, develops in high humidity. Since there is no good treatment for this plant disease, damaged leaves and even the entire infected plant may have to be thrown out. Keep peperomia leaves dry and provide good air circulation to prevent diseases.","Use a well-aerated loose potting soil that drains quickly.","Re-pot peperomia plants to the next size container when the roots of the plant have filled the existing pot. Planting a peperomia in a pot that is too large prevents the soil from drying out quickly and causes root-rot.","Peperomia plants can be pruned anywhere along the stem. New growth develops from the nodes just below the cut in the stem.","These plants are easily propagated from leaf cuttings, stem tip cuttings, and plant division . Be sure to allow the cut ends of the peperomia leaves or stems being used for propagation to dry out for several hours or overnight before planting them.","A Peperomia is an non- poisonous plant."
"204","Peperomia Plant - Caperata","PEPEROMIA CAPERATA","Peperomia plants grow best in bright indirect light provided by a west or east facing, window. They also do well under florescent lights. Insufficient light causes this slow growing plant to stop growing all together. Direct sunlight burns the leaves.","Allow the top 50% of the soil in a peperomia plant to dry out before watering. Over-watering, causing yellow leaves and soggy stems, is the main cause of serious peperomia problems. Root-rot, which causes the plant to die, is the direct result of over-watering. Peperomia plants do well when watered from the bottom. This technique keeps water off of the leaves and helps prevent plant diseases. The thick leaves of a peperomia hold water and allow it to withstand long periods without moisture.","Fertilize a monthly in the spring and summer with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. It's not necessary to feed a peperomia in the fall and winter.","Warm temperatures between 60degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (15.5degrees-26.7degrees Celsius) are best. Temperatures below 50degrees-55degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees-12.8degrees Celsius) and cold drafts from windows and doors damage the leaves.","Peperomia plants are from the rain forests of Brazil and like a humid environment.","Peperomia flowers are small and inconsequential, growing at the top of tall stalks; it's the leaves of a Peperomia plant that are more interesting.","Houseplant pests such as Mealy Bugs and Aphids can be a problem.","Ringspot, a virus that marks the leaves of peperomia plants, and other houseplants, with unsightly round marks, may develop because of the high humidity this plant likes. Since there is no good treatment for ring spot disease, damaged leaves and even the entire infected plant may have to be thrown out. Keep the leaves of a peperomia plant dry and provide good air circulation to prevent ring spot disease. Over watering causes root rot.","Use a well-aerated potting soil that drains quickly. Peperomia plants are semi- succulent s and do not like wet feet.","Repot only when the roots of the plant have out-grown the existing pot. Always move a peperomia plant to the next size pot only and be sure the pot has good drainage. Putting a peperomia in a pot that is too large allows the soil to stay wet too long and causes root rot.","A peperomia can be pruned at any point along the stem. New growth on the develops from the nodes just below the cut in the stem.","Peperomia plants are easily propagated from leaf cuttings, stem tip cuttings, and plant division . Be sure to allow the cut ends of the leaves or stems being used for propagation to dry out before planting them.","Peperomia plants are non- poisonous plants"
"205","Persian Shield Plant","STROBILANTHES DYERIANUS","A Persian Shield plant needs bright indirect light to maintain the vibrant colors in its leaves; but no direct afternoon sun or the leaves may be damaged. The plant becomes thin and leggy when there is not enough light.","Keep the soil barely moist, water when the top few inches of soil are dry. Spotting on the leaves occurs if cold water splashes on them. Water less in the fall and winter when the plant is not actively growing.","Do not fertilize a Persian Shield plant during the fall and winter. In the spring and summer, when the plant is actively growing, feed every two weeks with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","These plants like to be warm. Place them in an area where the temperature is always above 60degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees Celsius).","Persian Shield plants require high humidity. Leaves dry up and fall off in low humidity. You can mist the leaves to increase the humidity, but use rain water or distilled water. Misting the plant with water containing chemicals such as chlorine or water that has passed through a softener puts marks on the leaves. If the air in your home is very dry, I'd recommend placing your Persian Shield plant on a wet pebble tray. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","A Persian Shield plant has beautiful leaves; the flowers, however, are rather inconsequential. Put the plant outside for the summer to encourage flower spikes, but be sure to bring it indoors before the temperature drops below 60degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees Celsius)","Aphids and whitefly : Learn how to identify and treat plant pests in the Glossary of the website.","This plant is fairly disease resistant. The main problem is root- rot from over watering.","A Persian Shield plant grows well in a rich soil that drains quickly.","Repot annually when the plant is young. As a Persian Shield plant matures, repot every other year. This is a fast growing plant. If it becomes too large and pruning is not controlling the size, try pruning the roots.","Aggressively prune a Persian Shield plant to keep it full and bushy","Use 2""-3"" stem tip cuttings to propagate a Persian Shield plant. Take the cuttings from the top of healthy stems just below a leaf node. Learn how to propagate using Stem Cuttings in the Glossary of the website.","A Persian Shield plant is slightly poisonous with a #1 toxicity level"
"206","Philodendron Congo Plant","PHILODENDRON TATEI","A Philodendron Congo can grow almost anywhere except in the direct sun. In low light the plant often looks stretched out as it tries to reach for the light.","Always allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering a Philodendron. When watering, cover the entire surface to prevent leaf problems because of dry soil areas.","Fertilize monthly only when the plant is actively growing with a balanced food at 1/2 the recommended strength. If the plant is not producing new leaves, it doesn't need plant food.","Philodendron Congos grow well in normal household temperatures between 70degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (21.1degrees 29.4degrees Celsius). Keep these plants away from cold drafts and air conditioners.","Higher humidity is a plus, but philodendrons do well in basic household humidity.","","Aphids and Mealy Bugs","Although high humidity helps a Congo grow well, it also encourages Erwinia Blight.","Use a rich quick-draining soil for philodendrons. You may have to add a little sand to your usual soil mix.","A Philodendron Congo is usually found in 6"", 8"", and 10"" containers. They are slow growers and do not need frequent repotting.","A Philodendron Congo rarely needs pruning.","Growers use tissue cultures to propagate this Philodendron hybrid. You can use off- shoots or air layering if you want to try to propagate a Congo.","A Philodendron Congo is a poisonous houseplant with a #2 Toxicity level ."
"207","Philodendron Heartleaf","SCANDENS OXYCARDIUM","A heartleaf philodendron can survive in low light conditions, but grows faster and produces more leaves in medium or bright indirect light . Never put any philodendron plant in direct sun.","Water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil dry out before watering again. Yellow leaves indicate over-watering and brown leaves mean the plant needs more water.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Fertilize every other month in the fall and winter. Heartleaf philodendron are fast growing plants and need quite a bit of plant food, but should be fertilized only when they are actively producing new leaves.","Heartleaf philodendrons grow well in temperatures between 70degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (24Cdegrees-27degrees Celsius) during the day and above 55degrees Fahrenheit (13degrees Celsius) at night.","Basic household humidity is fine though higher humidity encourages larger leaves.","A heartleaf philodendron does not produce flowers indoors.","Keep an eye out for Aphids , spider mites, Mealy Bugs , thrip , and scale .","Root-rot from over-watering is the main disease problem","Use a well-aerated, all purpose potting soil that drains quickly.","Re-pot only when the plant has become root-bound in its existing container. Smaller pots help prevent over-watering.","Keep the long vines pruned so that the plant stays full and doesn't become leggy. Wash the leaves frequently to prevent dust from clogging the pores of the plant.","A heartleaf philodendron is easily propagated using Stem Cuttings , especially during the growing season. Be sure the stem cutting has several nubs on it. Nubs are the little bumps where the leaves meet the stem and where new roots will eventually develop.","All philodendron plants are considered very poisonous with a #2 toxicity level ."
"208","Philodendron Imperial Red","ARACEAE","A Philodendron Imperial Red can survive in low light , but grows faster and looks better in medium light.","Always allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering. Water less, allowing the soil to dry out a bit more, during the winter months.","Fertilize monthly when the plant is actively growing with a balanced food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. If the plant is not producing new leaves, it doesn't need any plant food.","An Imperial Red Philodendron grows well in warm temperatures between 70degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit ( 21.1degrees-29.4degrees Celsius)","Basic household humidity is fine for this plant.","","A Philodendron Imperial Red attracts Mealy Bugs and Aphids . Use the green solution ( recipe in the Glossary) to treat both of these problems.","Erwinia Blight, a type of harmful plant bacteria, is the main disease that affects an Imperial Red Philodendron.","Use a rich quick draining soil for all types of philodendrons; you may have to add a little sand to your usual soil mix if it appears too heavy.","Philodendrons like to be slightly root-bound and a little snug in their pot. When the roots have just about filled the container, move your plant to a new container that is a few inches larger than the existing one. The best time to re-pot your houseplants is in the late winter or early spring before they start to grow again after a winter rest.","","Growers use tissue cultures to successfully propagate this hybrid. You can use off- shoots or air layering to try to propagate your plant.","All philodendrons contain calcium oxalate are very Poisonous Houseplants with a #2 toxicity level ."
"209","Philodendron Micans","PHILODENDRON HEDERACEUM","A philodendron micans prefers bright, indirect light, but no direct sun. This plant can survive in lower light but grows very slowly.","Allow the top 1/3 of the soil to dry out before watering; then water well enough so that the water drains out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Never allow a velvet leaf philodendron to sit in water. During the winter, when the plant is resting, allow the soil to dry out even more.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer with a balanced houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Fertilize every other month in the fall and winter. This is a fast growing plant and if the new leaves are small or the plant is not growing, it may need more plant food.","Temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-23.9degrees Celsius) during the day and above 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius) at night.","Does well in normal household humidity","","Aphids , spider mites, mealybugs and scale . Read more about these pests and how to recognize and treat them in the Glossary of the website.","Root-rot from over-watering is the main disease problem.","loose, well-drained soil that is high in organic matter.Use a good quality, fast draining, loose soil that contains a substantial amount of organic material.","Re-pot when the roots of the philodendron have filed the existing container. Move to the next size potonly and be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of the pot.","Prune the long vines aggressively and frequently so the plant stays full and doesn't become leggy. Do not use leaf shine products on a philodendron micans.","Propagate using Stem Cuttings in the spring and early summer.These cuttings root very well in water. Read more about propagation techniques in the Glossary of the website.","Philodendron plants contain calcium oxalate crystals and should be kept away from small children and pets. It has a #1 toxicity level , meaning it is considered to be mildly toxic."
"210","Philodendron Selloum","PHILODENDRON BIPINNATIFIDUM","A philodendron selloum grows well in bright indirect light . In lower light the leaves turn a darker green. Too much light or direct sun burns the leaves or causes the deep green color to fade.","Unlike other philodendrons, the selloum likes moist but not soggy soil. During the winter, water less often, keeping the soil barely moist.","Feed monthly during the spring, summer, and fall with a water-soluble balanced fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Too much plant food causes excess salt build up in the soil and can cause leaf burn. The leaves on a philodendron selloum usually turn pale green when the plant needs more fertilizer.","Philodendron selloums like warm temperatures above 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius). Keep these plants away from drafts and open doors especially during the winter.","A philodendron selloum is a type of tree philodendron. It has thinner leaves than many of its relatives and requires a more humid environment to grow well. If your home or office is very dry in the winter, place your selloum near a humidifier or sit it on a wet pebble tray.","It takes about 15-20 years for a mature philodendron selloum to flower; and it rarely flowers indoors. The pedal-less flowers are enclosed in a spathe, a modified leaf, which is often mistaken for the flower itself.","Aphids, Mealy Bugs, scale, and spider mites can be a problem. If any of these plant pests appear, spray the entire plant with warm soapy water or the green solution. Scrape off scale with a child's toothbrush. You can read more about these plant pests in the Glossary of the website.","Bacterial blight can cause small, very dark green blotches on the leaves that expand rapidly. Infected leaves eventually rot and die becoming quite smelly in the process. The best way to prevent bacterial blight is to keep the leaves dry at all times, avoid overhead watering, and immediately remove any infected leaves.","A philodendron selloum grows best in a rich, slightly alkaline soil that retains moisture. The leaf tips burn if there is too much salt in the soil usually due to over-feeding.","You can tell it's time to move your selloum to a larger pot when the roots have filled the existing pot. The new container should only be 1""-2"" wider and deeper than the previous container.","Use a sharp pruners or scissors to control the size and shape of this philodendron. You can remove entire leaves by cutting them off at the base of the leaf stem. You can also remove the lower leaves if you want to reveal the plant's stem. Always wear gloves when pruning and wash your hands and tools when finished. You don't want to get the sap in your eyes or mouth.","Propagate using Stem Cuttings . Read more about propagation using Stem Cuttings in the Glossary of the website.","A philodendron selloum is a very poisonous houseplant with a level #3 toxicity. All philodendron plants contain calcium oxalate crystals. Eating any part of the plant may cause the following symptoms: pain in the mouth, drooling (dogs & cats), and vomiting. If swelling of the lips, tongue, and airway occurs, it becomes difficult to breathe or swallow."
"211","Philodendron Xanadu Plant","PHILODENDRON BIPINNATIFIDUM","A Philodendron Xanadu needs more light than other philodendron plants to maintain its compact appearance. It grows best in medium, indirect light. Too much bright light causes the leaves to become pale and bleached looking; too little light and the stems become elongated as the plant stretches towards the light. Direct sun burns the leaves.","Water a Xanadu thoroughly until the water drains out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot, and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Leaves turn yellow if the soil stays too wet. A Xanadu grows more slowly in the winter and requires less water.","Feed monthly in the spring and fall, every other week in the summer, and never in the winter. Use a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. If the leaves are getting smaller and new growth is slow, the plant needs more food.","Daytime temperatures 75degrees to 80degrees Fahrenheit ( 23.9degrees-26.7degrees Celsius); nighttime temperatures 65degrees- 70degrees F (18.3degrees-21.1degrees Celsius)","Philodendrons like high humidity but still grow well in regular household humidity.","","A Philodendron Xanadu attracts Aphids and Mealy Bugs . If the air is very dry, spider mites are also a problem.","Bacterial diseases, especially all varieties of Leaf Spot Disease , are a problem for the Philodendron Xanadu. Root rot from over- watering can seriously hurt the plant and cause the plant to die. Cool temperatures, dry leaves, and good air circulation helps prevent diseases.","Use a potting soil high in organic matter that drains quickly.","These plants like to be repotted as soon as their roots start to fill the existing pot. Use a a container that has drip holes in the botton and is about two -three inches larger than the root ball.","A Xanadu does not require much pruning. If the plant is getting too large and taking over your room, remove leaves by cutting them off at the base of their stem.","A Xanadu is propagated by plant division . Read about this type of propagation technique in the Glossary of the website.","A Philodendron Xanadu is a poisonous plant with a level #1 toxicity. Philodendrons are especially poisonous to dogs and cats."
"212","Pilea Cadierei","PILEA CADIEREI","A pilea needs bright indirect light . Direct sun burns the leaves and not enough light causes the plant to become leggy as it reaches for the light.","Keep the soil slightly moist, but not soggy at all times. During the cooler months or when your pilea is not producing new leaves, allow the top 2-3 inches of soil to dry out before watering.","Feed every two weeks when a pilea is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","The best temperature 60degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit ( 18.3degrees-23.9degrees Celsius)","These plants require very high humidity. If your home is dry, place a pilea on a tray of pebbles filled with water. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","A pilea plant produces very small flowers that are over- shadowed by its distinctive leaves.","Spider mites, Aphids , Fungus Gnats , scale , thrip can all be a problem. See a picture and read more about these plant pests in the Glossary of the website.","Because of the high humidity a pilea requires, both bacterial and Fungal leaf spot disease are a problem. Prevent this disease by keeping the leaves dry and providing good air circulation around the plant. A commercial Fungicide can be used to treat the problem.","Use a houseplant soil that is airy and drains quickly. Add peat moss or other organic matter to help your pilea develop a good root structure.","Pileas are one of the few houseplants that do not like to be root-bound. Since these are very small plants, they rarely require a pot larger than 8"".","Frequently prune Pilea plants to prevent them from becoming leggy and unattractive.","Stem Cuttings are the best way to propagate a pilea.","A pilea is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"213","Podocarpus Plant","PODOCARPUS MACROPHYLLUS","A Podocarpus requires very bright indirect light . If it is not getting enough light the lower needles on the branches become large and elongated.","Keep the soil moist but not soggy; allow the top two inches to dry out before watering. Brown leaf tips or gray needles indicate over- watering.","Feed a Podocarpus every two weeks in the spring and summer when it is actively growing. Use a plant food that is designed for acid loving plants such as Miracid at 1/2 the recommended strength.","Podocarpus prefer cool temperatures between 50degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees-23.9degrees Celsius).","These plants do best in medium humidity. If your home is very dry, especially in the winter, set a small humidifier near your Podocarpus or place it on a bed of wet gravel. Be sure the plant is sitting on the gravel and not in the water.","The flowers of this plant are very small and inconspicuous.","Podocarpus are susceptible to Mealy Bugs and scale .","Although the soil should be kept somewhat moist, over watering leads to root rot. sooty mold is another disease that can infect a Podocarpus.","Use a well-aerated acidic soil. Add perlite or sand if your soil seems too heavy or clay-like.","","A Podocarpus must be actively and aggressively pruned to maintain any kind of shape. Pruning back the new growth on the vertical stem encourages side branches and a fuller bushier plant.","Propagate a Podocarpus using soft wood Stem Cuttings in the early spring.","A Podocarpus has a level #1 toxicity if eaten. However, various parts of the plant, especially the seeds within the berries are very harmful to dogs, cats, and horses. This plant should be kept away from small children and animals."
"214","Poinsettia Plant","EUPHORBIACEAE PULCHERRIMA","Poinsettia Plants need very bright indirect light but no direct sun. The light from a north- facing window is really not adequate for a Poinsettia Plant. If you place your Poinsettia Plant close to a window, be sure none of the leaves touch the glass or the cold will damage them.","Poinsettia Plants are members of the Euphorbia family and should not be over- watered. Always allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering to prevent root rot. Over-watering a Poinsettia Plant causes green leaves to fall off, leaving bare stems topped by a few colorful bracts. Severe under-watering, in which a Poinsettia Plant badly droops, results in both green and colored leaves dropping off. Be careful not to get the leaves of a Poinsettia Plant wet when watering. Water drops cause unsightly white marks on Poinsettia leaves.","Fertilize a Poinsettia Plant monthly in the spring and summer after the plant has finished blooming.","Temperature is a very important factor in Poinsettia Plant care. Poinsettia Plants last longer and look better when the temperature is between 65-70 degrees during the day and around 60 degrees at night. Temperatures that are too hot or too cold damage Poinsettia Plant leaves and may cause leaf drop. Keep Poinsettia Plants away from drafty doors and windows, fireplaces, heaters, and the tops of appliances that give off heat.","A Poinsettia Plant does well in basic household humidity.","","Houseplant pests that may infect Poinsettia Plants are: whiteflies , Fungus Gnats , Mealy Bugs , and spider mites.","Avoid over- watering and keep the leaves of a Poinsettia Plant dry to prevent plant diseases.","Use a good, quick-draining, acidic potting soil for Poinsettias.","Poinsettia Plants can be found in pots from 4""-14""","","Poinsettias are propagated by Stem Cuttings , but it is quite difficult.","Poinsettias, despite all rumors, are only very mildly poisonous . If quite a bit of the plant is ingested, some vomiting, drooling in pets, or sometimes diarrhea may be occur. If the milky sap of a poinsettia gets onto the skin, redness, swelling, and itchiness can develop especially if someone is allergic to latex."
"215","Polka Dot Plant","HYPOESTES","A polka dot plant, Hypoestes, grows best in bright indirect light . Too much light or too little light causes the colors in the leaves of this plant to fade.","Water well and then allow the top 25% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Over-watering causes root rot. If the leaves droop, they quickly perk up after a little water.","Feed it monthly in the spring and summers with a balanced liquid fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the usual strength. During the fall and winter, fertilize every other month.","Polka dot plants prefer warm temperatures around 75degrees Fahrenheit (23.9degrees Celsius)","High humidity is preferred","The flowers are small and inconsequential flowers compared to the bright, bold leaves,","The colorful leaves attract whiteflies Aphids, and Mealy Bugs; use the ""green solution"" at 1/2 strength to get rid of these plant pests.","Over- watering causes powdery mildew and root rot.","Prefers a rich, loose, peat-based soil that drains well.","Polka dots plants are usually found in 4"" and 6"" pots.","Prune aggressively to prevent the plant from becoming leggy and thin looking.","Polka dot plants have a limited life span, but they are easily propagated from Stem Cuttings .","This is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"216","Ponytail Palm Plant","BEAUCARNEA RECURVATA","A Ponytail Palm grows best in very bright indirect light or full sun. In proper growing conditions, it can reach a height of up to 8ft.","Over- watering is about the only way to kill a Ponytail Palm. Allow the top 50-70% of the soil to dry out before watering. During the warm months you may need to water every 7-14 days; in winter, only every three or four weeks. A Ponytail Palm stores water in its base and is very drought resistant. These plants can get brown leaf dips when they are over or under watered. However, when in doubt, do not water!","Fertilize monthly during the spring and summer with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. If the soil is very dry, use plain water first, then use water containing plant food. This prevents the fertilizer from burning the roots and causing brown leaf tips.","Ponytail Palms like warm temperatures above 60degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees Celsius). They can survive lower temperatures, but don't grow as well. These plants, unlike other exotic tropical houseplants, like dry hot heat.","A Ponytail Palm needs very little humidity and does well in warm dry air.","","Mealy Bugs , spider mites, and scale may infest a Ponytail Palm, especially the new growth. Spray with the green solution diluted to 1/2 strength.","","The soil of a Ponytail Palm needs to dry out. Use a fast draining, light soil with a lot of sand in it; this helps prevent over-watering and root rot.","If you want to keep a Pony Tail Palm small keep it in a small pot. When you move it to a larger pot, the trunk can expand and the PonyTail Palm grows faster.","Trim the brown ends off the leaves with a wet scissors.","Propagate by separating the offsets or suckers that grow around the base of the plant. Read more about this type of propagation in the Glossary of the website.","A Ponytail Palm is a non- poisonous plant."
"217","Pothos Plant","EPIPREMNUM AUREUM","There is a pothos plant variety for almost any light situation. Green Jade pothos with their solid green leaves do well in low light . The Golden pothos variety, with yellow and green leaves, likes medium light. Marble Queen pothos, with green and white leaves, grow best in medium to bright indirect light . The lighter the color in the leaves, the more light a plant requires.","Water well and then allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Over-watering is the main reason a pothos plant dies. Bright yellow leaves indicate that the soil has gotten too dry before you watered it. New growth and older leaves turn pale yellow and may get black spots on the leaves when a pothos is over- watered.","Fertilize every two weeks in the spring and summer when the plant is actively growing and monthly in the fall and winter. Use a well-balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Pothos plants do well in temperatures between 55degrees and 80degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees-26.7degrees Celsius). If temperatures drop below 45degrees Fahrenheit (7.2degrees Celsius), a pothos plant stops growing and the leaves turn black.","Basic household humidity","","Pothos plants are relatively pest resistant. If the soil stays too damp, Fungus Gnats may appear. Mealy Bugs are another pest to look out for.","Over-watering causes plant diseases such as crown, leaf, and root rot. Once pothos plant roots are destroyed, is difficult to save the plant.","Use a well-aerated, quick-draining potting soil that dries out quickly.","Pothos plants like to be root-bound in small pots. Do not re-pot until the roots of the plant have filled the existing container. There must always be drip holes in the bottom of the pot so excess water can escape.","Trim long runners to keep a pothos looking bushy and full. 5""- 6"" cuttings can be rooted in water or vermiculite and used to start new plants.","Propagate using Stem Cuttings . You can find out how to propagate using Stem Cuttings in the Glossary of the website.","Pothos plants are poisonous plants with a level #2 toxicity."
"218","Prayer Plant","MARANTA LEUCONEURA","Prayer plants do well in medium to high light , but no direct sun. When there is not enough light, the leaves close at night and do not fully open during the day. When a Prayer plant gets too much light, the color in the leaves starts to fade.","Keep the soil of a Prayer plant moist but never soggy. Unlike most houseplants, it does not like to dry out before you water.","A Prayer plant is an acid loving houseplant. Feed with a basic houseplant food like Miracid, diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength every two weeks in the spring and summer. It's not necessary to fertilize a Prayer plant in the winter and fall. This acid loving plant will love your extra tea.","A Prayer Plant prefers normal household temperatures between 60degrees-80degrees.F (15.6degrees-26.7degrees Celsius). Lower temperatures can damage the leaves.","A Prayer Plant likes a very humid environment, and the humidity in ours homes is often too low. Increase the humidity by grouping plants together, putting a small humidifier or bowl of water near the plant, or setting a Prayer plant on a tray filled with water and small stones. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","The flowers of a Prayer plant are small and insignificant.","Mealy Bugs , spider mites, and Aphids are plant pests that can attack a Prayer Plant.","The high humidity a Prayer Plant needs encourages Leaf Spot Disease .","Prayer plants do best in a well-aerated, peat based, indoor potting soil that retains water yet still drains quickly.","These plants have very shallow roots. Always plant a Prayer plant in shallow pots with drip holes in the bottom.","Pruning a Prayer plant consists mainly of trimming the stems twice a year to keep the plant compact and bushy.","This plant is propagated by plant division and Stem Cuttings .","A Prayer Plant is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"219","Purple Velvet Plant","GYNURA AURANTIACA","A Purple Velvet plant needs bright indirect light . The intense purple color in the leaves starts to fade when the plant is not getting enough light.","Always allow the top 25% of the soil to dry out before watering. A Purple Velvet plant has fragile roots and is very susceptible to root rot, so be very careful not to over-water. Reduce your watering in the spring and fall when a Purple Velvet Plant is not actively growing. Try to keep the foliage dry and do not mist this plant.","Feed Purple Velvet plant every with a balanced fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Feed monthly during the fall and every other month during the winter when the plant is resting.","Temperatures between 65degrees-85degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-29.4degrees Celsius) are best.","Purple Velvet plants like high humidity.","A Purple Velvet plant produces small yellow/orange flowers in the spring or early summer. Many people find the smell of these flowers offensive so I would recommend cutting them off as soon as they appear.","whitefly , mealybugs, spider mites, scale , and Aphids can be a problem.","A Purple Velvet Plant is fairly disease resistant. Root rot caused by over watering is the main problem.","Use a good, basic, indoor potting soil that holds moisture but still drains quickly. Be sure there are drainage holes in the bottom of the pot to prevent over-watering and root-rot.","Purple Velvet plants grows much better when kept root- bound in small pots.","Aggressively prune before the plant starts to get too long and leggy. New growth develops wherever you trim the plant, making the Purple Velvet plant look much fuller. The cuttings can be used to propagate new plants.","A Purple Velvet plant is easily propagated by Stem Cuttings . These cuttings can be rooted in water or planted directly in the soil.","There are different opinions as to whether or not this plant is a poisonous houseplant. While it is often listed as a non- poisonous plant, I would recommend that it still be kept away from pets and small children. It has also been noted that some people have an allergic reaction from just touching the plant."
"220","Purple Waffle Plant","HEMIGRAPHIS ALTERNATA","Provide medium to bright indirect light but no direct sun. The leaf edges turn brown and curl and the colors in the leaves bleach out if the light is too strong. When there is not enough light, the vibrant colors in the leaves of a Purple Waffle plant start to fade.","Keep the soil barely moist but not soggy, at all times. Water less during the winter when the plant is growing slowly.","Feed your Waffle plant monthly from late March through September with a plant food high in phosphate (5/10/5) diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Be sure the soil is moist when you feed the plant or the roots may get burned","Waffle plants likes warm temperatures between 55degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees–23.9degrees Celsius). Temperatures below 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius) may damage the leaves.","These plants grow better and look better in high humidity. If the air in your home is very dry, set the plant on a wet pebble tray. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. If you do mist the plant, mist during the warm part of the day so the leaves have a chance to dry before night.","A Purple Waffle plant occasionally produces small, tubular, white flowers.","Fairly pest resistant, but a Waffle plant may attract whiteflies and scale","Root rot develops when the plant is overwatered. Mildew may occur if you mist a Purple Waffle plant late in the day and the leaves don't dry before evening.","Use a rich, organic soil full of peat moss that drains quickly.","Move the plant to the next size pot, and nothing larger, when the roots have filled the existing pot.","Pinch the stem tips of a Waffle plant to keep it bushy and compact. Allow some stems to grow long if you want to put the plant in a hanging basket.","Propagate during the spring and summer using 4""-6"" stem tip cuttings taken just below a node in the stem.","Non- poisonous to humans and pets"
"221","Pygmy Date Palm","PHOENIX ROEBELENII PALMS","An indoor date palm does well in bright indirect light , but can survive in medium filtered light; be careful not to over-water in lower light. Place a Phoenix roebelenii near an east or south facing window.","Keep the soil of a Pygmy Date Palm moist but never soggy during most of the year. In winter, allow the soil to dry out before watering. The fronds of a Dwarf Date Palm turn brown from too much water or from hard water.","Fertilize a Phoenix Roebelenii once in spring and again in summer with a time-release fertilizer . Rose fertilizer s work well because they provide important micronutrients that a Phoenix Roebelenii needs. Not enough magnesium in the plant food causes yellow spots on the fronds. If you use a regular, rather than a time release plant food, fertilize monthly when the palm is actively growing. Always dilute the plant food to 1/2 the recommended strength.","The ideal temperature for Pygmy Date Palms is 50-75degrees Fahrenheit (16-24degrees Celsius). A Phoenix Roebelenii does not do well when temperature go below 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius).","A Phoenix Roebelenii needs moderate to high humidity.","","Look out for scale and Spider Mites on a Pygmy Date palm.","Root rot occurs when a Phoenix Roebelenii is over- watered.","Use a basic indoor potting soil that drains well. Add a little perlite or hard sand to potting soil to improve drainage.","Repot an immature Phoenix Roebelenii every few years in the Spring. A mature plant has very delicate roots that don't like to be disturbed. As the Palm gets older, keep it in the same pot and replace the top few inches of soil each year. A Phoenix Roebelenii is a spreading plant that gets very top heavy so plant it in a heavy container so that won't tip over.","There are sharp spines at the base of the leaflets on the fronds of a Phoenix Roebelenii, be sure to wear gloves when pruning off old fronds.","A Dwarf Palm is propagated using the suckers that develop around the base of the plant. Cut off the suckers, including their roots, and plant them in a small pot to start a new plant.","Phoenix Roebelenii are non- Poisonous Houseplants ."
"222","Rabbit's Foot Fern","DAVILLIA FEJEENSIS","A Rabbit's Foot fern does well in the medium light provided by a north or east-facing window. Avoid south and west-facing windows because the intense sun will burn the fronds and the heat will cause the soil to dry out too quickly.","This particular fern likes to be a little drier than most other indoor ferns. Allow the top 25% of the soil to dry out before watering.","Fertilize every 2 weeks in the spring, summer & fall with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Feed a Rabbit's Foot fern only when it is actively growing. Too much fertilizer burns the edges of the fronds.","Temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-23.9degrees Celsius) during the day and 10degrees cooler at night.","A Rabbit's Foot fern prefers 40-50% humidity.","","Mealy Bugs and scale . If the infestation is very bad, cut off the entire frond. Do not use a commercial pesticide, it will damage the delicate fronds. Use a Qtip dipped in alcohol to remove any bugs.","A Rabbit's Foot fern is usually disease resistant.","A Rabbit's Foot fern grows well in a soil that is 50% peat moss and 50% chopped bark.","Rabbit's Foot ferns have very shallow root systems and like to be planted in a shallow pot. Re-pot every few years when the roots have filled the entire pot.","Pruning is rarely necessary.","Propagate by plant division . Carefully divide the plant rhizomes (fleshy roots); be sure that there is a piece of stem attached to each rhizome.","A Rabbit's Foot Fern is a non-poisonous houseplant."
"223","Rhapis Palm","RHAPIS EXCELSA","A Rhapis Palm grows best in bright indirect light but can adapt to lower light.","Allow the top 50% of the soil of a Rhapis Palm to dry out before watering. A Rhapis, like many palms, is sensitive to chlorine, fluoride, and boron in the water. If these chemicals are present allow the water to sit for 24-48 hours before using it or use distilled water. Consistent over-watering causes root rot.","Lady Palms are slow-growing plants that need very little fertilizer . Feed every other month when the plant is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength. If the fronds start to look a little yellow add an extra feeding to your schedule.","The Rhapis Palm can adapt to temperatures between 50degreesand 80degrees F. (10degrees-26.7degrees Celsius) so it is well-suited to any home or office.","Lady Palms adjust to both dry and humid environments.","","If your Lady Palm gets spider mites or scale , the insects tend to hide under stem coverings and are difficult to reach with sprays. A systemic insecticide works better.","","Plant a Rhapis Palm in a well-drained dense soil and add additional humus if needed. African Violet soil works well. If the soil appears heavy and isn't draining quickly, add sand.","A Lady Palm likes to be root-bound in a small pot. When you do repot be sure to cover all of the roots and bases of the canes. This encourages new shoots and suckers that make the palm look full.","","Propagate by plant division . Divide the canes of the plant into several clumps. Be sure to include their underground rhizomes since this is where the new shoots come from.","Lady Palms are non-toxic plants."
"224","Rubber Tree Plant","FICUS ELASTICA","Rubber tree plants do best in medium to bright indirect light . The solid green and dark burgundy varieties can adapt to less light, but the stems may be weak and the leaves small.","These plants are a little difficult to water. Allow the top 25-30% of the soil to dry out before watering. Keep the soil drier when your plant is in lower light or the room temperature is cooler. The leaves turn yellow from under-water and perfectly fine leaves may fall off from over-watering.","Rubber tree plants do not need much fertilizer . Feed monthly when the plant is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Indoors they do well in warm temperatures between 70degrees Fahrenheit-80degrees Fahrenheit (21.1Cdegrees-26.7degrees Celsius) with a night-time temperature around 65degrees Fahrenheit (18.3C). Keep a Rubber Tree plant away from cold drafts, air conditioners, heaters, and fireplaces.","Basic household humidity","","whiteflies , scale , Mealy Bugs , and thrip","sooty mold , root rot, and leaf spot. Treat by spraying all parts of your plant with the "" green solution "" diluted to 1/2 the usual strength. (Recipe in the Glossary). Large brown spots along leaf edges usually indicate a fungal or bacterial disease. Remove the diseased leaves, replace the soil, and scrub the container with a mild bleach solution. Keep infected plants away from your other plants.","Use a well-aerated houseplant soil that retains moisture but still drains quickly.","Rubber tree plants like to be root-bound in small pots so don't rush to move them to larger containers. Be sure any pot you use has drip holes in the bottom.","Cutting off the growing tip of a main stem encourages the plant to send out new shoots and become bushier. Rubber Tree plants are relatively pest free, but not dust free. It's important to clean the broad leaves, both for aesthetics and for the health of the plant. Never use milk or mayonnaise to clean the leaves of your houseplants since both attract bugs and clog the pores in the plant leaves. There are several commercial plant cleaners available in the stores.","Stem Cuttings and air layering .","Slightly poisonous with a level #1 toxicity."
"225","Sago Palm","CYCAS REVOLUTA PALMS","A Sago Palm needs bright light with a little direct sun in the morning. Give a Sago Palm 1/4 of a turn each week to keep it from growing toward the light. In bright light a Sago Palm produces short thick fronds, in lower light the fronds are long and thin.","Allow the top 75% of the soil to dry out before thoroughly watering a Sago Palm. Water sparingly in the winter when there is less light and cooler temperatures. Be careful never to get water in the crown of a Sago Palm plant, this can cause crown rot disease and the eventual death of the plant. Sago Palms should never be allowed to totally dry out.","Feed a Sago Palm Plant monthly from the spring through fall with a liquid fertilizer (18-6-18) at 1/2 the recommended strength. To avoid leaf tip burn, never feed a Sago Palm if the soil is very dry. The fronds of a Sago Palm shrivel and dry up if it has been over-fertilized.","Sago Palms prefer temperatures between 60degrees-75degrees F (16degrees-24degrees C). They still do well in temperatures as low 45degrees F (7.2degrees Celsius) and can even survive for a short time when it is 25degrees Fahrenheit (-3.9degrees Celsius).","Sago Palms prefer high humidity so you may need to place a humidifier near the palm if the air in your home is very dry. Sago Palms can survive in basic household humidity but will not grow as well.","","scale is the main houseplant pest that attacks a Sago Palm.","crown rot plant disease occurs when water gets on the crown of a Sago Palm Plant. There is no treatment for crown rot and the Sago Palm often dies.","Use a cactus soil mix or a combination of 2 parts peat-moss based potting mix and 1 part sharp sand or perlite for a Sago Palm.","The roots of a Sago Palm do not like to be disturbed so re-pot only when necessary. You can control the height of a Sago Palm Plant by keeping it in a small pot.","Remove dead or damaged fronds from a Sago Palm as soon as they appear.","Mature Sago Palms produce offsets , called pups, which are used for propagation . When you remove a pup from around the base of a Sago Palm to propagate a new plant, be sure to take all of the leaves and roots.","A Sago Palm is a very poisonous houseplant with a #4 level toxicity. All parts are poisonous , especially the seeds. Keep a Sago Palm out of the reach of children, dogs, and especially cats who love to play with the fronds of the plant."
"226","Sansevieria Plant","SANSEVIERIA TRIFASCIATA","A sansevieria can be placed anywhere in a room from the darkest corner to the brightest window. The better the light, the faster a sansevieria grows.","Over-watering is the main reason sansevieria plants die. Allow the soil to dry out before watering. During the winter, in a low light area, a sansevieria plant may need water only once a month.","Feed a Sansevieria monthly when the plant is actively growing with a Cactus plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never use a fertilizer that contains nitrates.","Sansevierias grow well in temperatures between 60degrees Fahrenheit (15.5degrees Celsius) and 85degrees F (29degrees Celsius)","Prefer low humidity.","Sansevieria plants may produce flowers every few years during the summer. Flower production occurs when the plant is in bright light and experiencing some stress. Stress for a Sansevieria might be severely dry soil or being root-bound in a small pot. The flowers of a Sansevieria, which appear as clusters on long spikes, are fragrant but not particularly pretty.","Sansevieria plants seem to be immune to houseplant pests.","Red Leaf Spot Disease and root rot caused by over- watering.","Plant in a good, rich, organic soil that drains quickly. If the soil in the pot isn't draining well, add some sand.","Like to be root-bound in small pots.","","plant division or leaf cuttings. When using leaf cuttings to propagate a Sansevieria, allow the cut end of the leaf to dry out for a few days before planting it.","A Sansevieria is a mildly poisonous plant with a #1 level toxicity."
"227","Schefflera Plant","SCHEFFLERA ACTINOPHYLLA","Schefflera plants do well in medium light, but grow faster and develop more leaves in bright indirect light . The schefflera amate variety needs less light than regular schefflera houseplants.","Allow the top 25-30% of the soil to dry out before watering a schefflera. Green leaves drop off and new growth turns black when schefflera plants are over-watered. Yellow leaves indicate a schefflera needs more water.","Fertilize a schefflera monthly in the spring and summer when it is actively growing with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. During the fall and winter feed schefflera plants every other month but only if the plant is producing new leaves.","Schefflera plants prefer temperatures between 65degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit ( 18.3degrees-26.7degrees Celsius). They do not do well in temperatures below 55degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees Celsius). Keep scheffleras away from cold drafts and heaters.","Basic household humidity or higher is fine for Schefflera houseplants. If the air is very dry, place your Schefflera Plant on a tray of pebbles and water. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","","Spider mites, Mealy Bugs , Aphids , scale , and Fungus Gnats can infest a schefflera. Insect prevention is always easier than treatment; so examine the leaves of your schefflera time you water.","Leaf spot and powdery mildew develop if the soil or leaves of a Schefflera stay too wet.","Use a well-aerated fast-draining indoor potting soil for a schefflera.","Schefflera plants can be found in pots 4""-14"" in size.","If a schefflera loses its bottom leaves or becomes leggy, don't be afraid to aggressively prune the plant. When cutting back the thick stems or trunks of a schefflera, make the cut a little above a plant node. New growth develops from the node.","Propagate a schefflera using stem tip cuttings.","Schefflera plants are slightly Poisonous Houseplants with a level #1 toxicity."
"228","Selaginella Plant","LYCOPODIOIDES","Light requirements depend upon the variety of Selaginella. bright indirect light indoors, partial shade outdoors is usually a good idea for most Selaginella varieties.","Keep the soil moist but never soggy and avoid using cold water. A Selaginella plant becomes totally dormant and the leaves roll into tight little brown balls when there is no moisture. Once the Selaginella is watered, it turns green and starts to grow again.","A Selaginella plant needs very little plant food. Feed twice a year, once in April and once in July, with a water soluble fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Do not fertilize newly potted Selaginella plants for at least two months.","Best temperature 50degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees-24degrees Celsius ). Some types of Selaginella plants can handle temperatures as low as 40degrees Fahrenheit (4.4degrees Celsius)","Spike Moss or Selaginella plants like high humidity.","","Bothersome Selaginella plant pests are Mealy Bugs and spider mites.","","Use a peat moss based soil that retains water but still drains well for a Selaginella.","","Pinch back the tips of the stems of a Selaginella plant if they grow too tall or leggy. Pruning a Selaginella stimulates new growth and helps the plant become bushier. Remove dead or damaged stems as soon as they appear.","In nature, a Selaginella plant is propagated by spores. At home or in the greenhouse, we usually propagate a Selaginella by plant division or Stem Cuttings .","Selanginella is a non- poisonous houseplant"
"229","Shamrock Plant","OXALIS","Shamrock plants need bright indirect light to grow well and produce flowers. They often bloom all winter if kept in a well-lit spot.","Keep the soil barely moist but never soggy and allow the top 2"" of soil to dry out before watering. It's best to water a shamrock plant from the bottom so the thin fragile stems of the plant don't get water logged and the soil stays loose.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer when a shamrock plant is actively growing with a balanced fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Never feed a shamrock plant when it is dormant and the bulbs are resting.","Shamrock plants grow best in cool temperatures between 60degrees-70degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-21.1degrees Celsius) during the day and 55degrees-65degrees Fahrenheit (12.8degrees-18.3degrees Celsius) at night.","Shamrock plants do well in basic household humidity.","The shamrock plant variety oxalis regnelli has small, delicate, white flowers. The shamrock variety oxalis triangularis has delicate little lavender flowers.","Shamrock plants attract Aphids, whiteflies, and spiders mites. Use the ""green solution,"" a mixture of 1/2 mild soapy water, 1/2 alcohol and a few tablespoons of mineral oil to get rid of the spider mites and Aphids. Yellow Sticky Insect cards is the best way to handle whiteflies.","Fungal rust (brownish/orange discoloration on the backs of leaves) and chlorotic ring spot (yellow rings on the tops of leaves) are the two main diseases to watch out for. In both instances, take the plant out of the pot, scrub the pot with a mild bleach mixture, and then wash it well before repotting the plant in fresh soil. Spray the plant with Neem Oil .","Use a loose and sandy soil rather than a rich and organic soil.","Keep shamrock plants in small pots to prevent over- watering.","If your shamrock plant gets thin and leggy, cut the plant back to an inch or two above the soil line and place it in very bright indirect light . Elongated stems occur because the plant is reaching for the light.","The best time to propagate a shamrock plant is in the early spring right after its dormant stage. Shamrock plants are propagated by bulb division. These plants have very small bulbs that are referred to as bulblets. The healthy bulbs are small, white, and puffy.","Shamrock plants are slightly poisonous if eaten in very large quantities with a #1 toxicity level ."
"230","Spider Plant","CHLOROPHYTUM COMOSUM","Spider plants like medium to bright indirect light . Solid green varieties need less light than green and white varieties. No Spider plant should ever be put in the direct sun.","Allow the top 50% of the soil to dry out before you water. A good way to tell when a spider plant needs water is to look at the leaves. The green color in the leaves starts to fade when the soil is dry. Water high in salts and chemicals causes brown leaf tips. Never use water that had passed through a water softener; it is much too salty.","Fertilize monthly with a balanced plant food diluted 1/2 the recommended strength. Spider plants need food only when they are actively growing. Feeding too often causes the tips of the leaves to turn brown.","A spider plant does well in temperatures between 45degrees Fahrenheit- 80degrees Fahrenheit (7.2degrees Celsius-26.7degrees Celsius).","These plants prefer high humidity but still do very well in homes and offices.","A Spider plant produces very small white flowers at the ends of long stems. These flowers are usually followed by ""baby spider plants"" that can be used to start new plants.","Mealy Bugs , spider mite, scale , and Aphids - Spraying a spider plant monthly with the "" green solution "" ( recipe in the Glossary) helps prevent houseplant pests.","Spider plants are rarely bothered by plant diseases.","Use a good organic houseplant soil like an an African violet mix.","Spider plants like to be root-bound in small pots. Don't worry about re-potting until the roots have taken up the entire pot and the plant's rhizomes have popped out of the soil.","If a spider plant produces too many ""babies,"" you can cut them off and start new plants. Cut off any brown leaf tips that develop due to too much fertilizer or chemicals in the water.","Propagate spider plants using ""offsets"" (babies at ends of stems) or by plant division.","Non-poisonous houseplant."
"231","Split Leaf Philodendron","MONSTERA DELICIOSA","A split leaf philodendron needs medium to bright light . It can survive in lower light, but the leaves won't split and the plant becomes leggy. Keep it out of the direct sun.","Water well until the water drains out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Allow the top 25-30% of the soil to dry out before watering again. Keep the soil damp but never soggy. Water droplets or perspiration on the leaves indicate over-watering; brown leaf edges indicate under watering.","Feed every two weeks when the plant is actively growing with a balanced plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","This plant prefers warm temperatures and doesn't do well in temperatures below 50degrees Fahrenheit (10degrees Celsius) .","Split leaf philodendrons grow better in high humidity, but adapt to household humidity.","A split leaf philodendron rarely flowers when grown as a houseplant.","Split leaf philodendrons are fairly immune to plant pests; but If Mealy Bugs , spider mites, Aphids , or scale appear, use the green solution (recipe in Glossary).","Watch out for bacterial diseases such as Erwinia Blight, Xanthomonas leaf spot, and leaf tip burn especially in warm, humid environments.","Does well in a rich soil that contains a good amount of peat moss. The soil needs to drain quickly to prevent root rot.","Unlike most indoor plants, a split leaf philodendron prefers to be in a large pot. These bigger pots promote larger leaves.","Try to keep the large leaves clean and dust free. This plant needs to be aggressively trimmed or it can take over your room.","Propagate using Stem Cuttings . Be sure to include a few leaves and a few plant nodes on each cutting and to allow the cutting to sit out over night before planting. This helps prevent the developing roots from rotting.","Split leaf philodendrons are very Poisonous Houseplants with a #2 toxicity level ."
"232","Staghorn Fern","PLATYCERIUM","Staghorn ferns like bright, indirect light but no direct sun.","Check the center of a Staghorn Fern for moisture. When the top 50% of the soil at the center is dry, submerge the entire plant, pot, piece of bark, or basket in a bucket of lukewarm water. Green fronds fall off a Staghorn Fern from over-watering. Keep the soil dryer in the winter.","Feed a Staghorn Fern monthly in spring and summer with a well balanced fertilizer at 1/2 the recommended strength.","A Staghorn Fern does well in temperatures between 65degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (18.3degrees-26.7degrees Celsius)","Staghorn Ferns like plenty of humidity, but never mist the leaves. Place a humidifier next to it if the air is too dry and the plant is not doing well.","","Houseplant pests such as Mealy Bugs and scale can be a problem.","The high humidity this plant likes may cause powdery mildew to develop on the leaves.","Orchid bark mixed with potting soil makes a good medium for a Staghorn Fern. This plant can also be grown in sphagnum moss that is attached to a piece of wood or bark. The arrangement can then be hung on a wall.","Clay pots or wire baskets filled with sphagnum moss work well. These plants look wonderful attached to a wooden plank and hanging on the wall.","","Propagating by plant division harms the roots. It's better to propagate a Staghorn Fern using the plantlets or offsets that develop at the base of the fern.","A Staghorn Fern is non- poisonous plant."
"233","Strawberry Begonia Plant","SAXIFRAGA STOLONIFERA","Place a Strawberry Begonia in bright indirect light . Direct sun burns a Strawberry Begonia Plant and puts holes in the leaves.","If the top 2""- 3"" of soil in the Strawberry Begonia Plant are still moist, do not water. When the top few inches dry out, water a Strawberry Begonia until water comes out the bottom drip holes. A Strawberry Begonia Plant needs less water in the fall and winter when it is resting. Always water a Strawberry Begonia from the bottom so no water collects on the hairs of the leaves.","Fertilize a Strawberry begonia Plant monthly during the spring and summer when the plant is actively growing with a balanced indoor plant food at 1/2 the recommended strength. Do not fertilize a Strawberry Begonia during the fall and winter.","Strawberry Begonias like cool temperatures and do not thrive when it is too hot. They prefer temperatures between 40-65 degrees(F).","A Strawberry Begonia does well in moderate to high humidity.","A Strawberry Begonia usually produces small white flowers in late spring or early summer.","Strawberry Begonias are fairly resistant to plant pests. If plant pests do appear, spray a Strawberry Begonia with an insecticidal soap such as Safer, at 1/2 the recommended strength.","Fungal and bacterial diseases can occur if water collects on the hairs of the leaves of a Strawberry Begonia. Keep the leaves dry and always water a Strawberry Begonia Plant from the bottom.","Use a a well-aerated houseplant soil that retains moisture but still drains quickly for a Strawberry begonia Plant.","A Strawberry Begonia is a small compact plant that rarely gets taller than 12""; it does however send out numerous runners. Use a pot that is wider rather than deeper so some of the baby plants at the ends of the runners can plant themselves and grow near the Mother plant. Keep the plant a little root bound to prevent over watering.","Remove any yellow, dead, or damaged leaves from a Strawberry Begonia Plant as soon as they appear; if left on, dead leaves weaken the plant.","Strawberry Begonias can be propagated by plant division; but the easiest propagation method is to plant the tiny baby plantlets that grow at the ends of the runners. See full planting instructions in the FAQ section.","A Strawberry Begonia is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"234","Stromanthe Tricolor Plant","STROMANTHE SANGUINEA","Place a Stromanthe plant in bright indirect light but no direct sun; a north or east facing window is best.","A Stromanthe likes to be kept barely moist at all times. Be careful not to over-water or the roots rot and the plant dies. In winter, allow the soil of a Stromanthe to dry out a little more, but never completely.","Feed every two weeks when the plant is actively growing, this is usually from early spring to the end of fall. Use a balanced fertilizer diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Avoid placing a Stromanthe in a cold or hot draft, otherwise basic household temperatures are fine.","A Stromanthe needs high humidity to keep its beautiful leaves looking good. If your house is dry, place a Stromanthe on a wet pebble tray. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water. Stromanthe plant leaves turn brown and become crisp when the air is too dry.","A Stromanthe ""sanquinea"" produces reddish-orange flowers in the spring.","Aphids and spider mites can be a pest problem. (read more about these pests in the Glossary of the website)","The high humidity a Stromanthe plant requires encourages fungal plant diseases.","Use a light, quick-draining soil that retains moisture but still drains quickly. A peat-based potting soil is a good choice for a Stromanthe.","Repot in late spring or summer. Be sure a Stromanthe has outgrown its existing pot before moving it to a larger one. When changing pots, use the next size container and nothing larger and be sure there are drip holes in the bottom of the pot.","Remove damaged or unattractive leaves where they are attached to the main stem.","Stromanthe plants are propagated by plant division . Carefully separate a Stromanthe rhizome, with 2 or 3 leaves attached, from the main root ball and plant it in a small pot of moist potting soil. Propagate in the spring before the plant starts its growth spurt.","A Stromanthe is closely related to a Prayer plant, which is a non- poisonous houseplant. However, there is little data about how poisonous a Stromanthe plant might be. I always recommend erring on the side of caution, if it is not 100% certain that a plant is safe keep it away from pets and small children."
"235","Swedish Ivy Plant","PLECTRANTHUS AUSTRALIS","Swedish Ivy plants require bright indirect light, but no direct sun. Inadequate light causes a Swedish Ivy to ""reach"" for the light and become leggy.","Allow the top 30% of the soil to dry out before watering. Most people kill a Swedish Ivy by over-watering and causing root rot. Yellow leaves indicate the plant is over-watered. The leaves become soft and dull green when a Swedish Ivy needs water. You can save an under-watered Swedish Ivy but it is hard to save an over-watered plant.","Fertilize every two weeks in the spring and summer when a Swedish Ivy is actively producing new leaves. Use a plant food high in nitrogen diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Swedish Ivy plants prefer temperatures between 70degrees-75degrees Fahrenheit most of the year. In the winter, cooler temperatures of 60degrees-65degrees Fahrenheit are best.","Although a Swedish Ivy prefers high humidity, it still grows well in regular household humidity.","Small purple or white flowers may develop during the late spring and summer. These flowers are not as impressive as the leaves and may slow down leaf growth. I usually prune them as soon as they appear; however others really seem to enjoy them.","Swedish Ivy plants attract Aphids, whitefly, scale, and especially Mealy Bugs. It's a good idea to spray monthly with the ""green solution"".","Leaf Spot is the most common plant disease that infects a Swedish Ivy.","Use an organic peat- based soil that drains well.","Do not re-pot a Swedish Ivy until the roots have filled its current pot.","A Swedish Ivy needs constant pruning. Trim several inches off the long vines to encourage new growth. The plant clippings can be used to propagate new plants.","Propagate a Swedish Ivy using Stem Cuttings.","A Swedish Ivy is a non- poisonous houseplant."
"236","Terrarium","BEST PLANTS FOR TERRARIUMS","The lighting for a terrarium depends upon the plants you decide to use. Succulent Plant s need very bright indirect light while other tropical plants will do well in medium light.","Watering also depends on the plants you select; Succulent Plant s need very dry soil while ferns like a moist soil. Since terrariums are closed or semi closed containers it takes the soil longer to dry out so be careful not to over water.","Most terrariums need very little plant food since you don't want the plants to get too large and outgrow their space. I recommend feeding twice a year with a fertilizer diluted to 1/4 the recommended strength.","Without your realizing it, the temperature in a terrarium can get too hot for plants. Keep your terrarium away from heaters and never in afternoon sun. Lift the lid to cool down the terrarium.","Lack of humidity is never a problem with a terrarium; on the other hand, too much humidity is often an issue. Open up the top of a terrarium container and wipe down the sides if condensation appears.","The high humidity encourages plants like mini orchids and begonias to bloom often.","Check frequently for plant pests. If a plant is heavily infected, it should be immediately removed. As a preventative measure, I spray monthly with a weak solution of insecticidal soap .","The high humidity inside a terrarium is very conducive to fungal and bacterial infections. Check the plants frequently and remove any dead leaves or infected plants immediately.","Proper drainage is essential or the roots of the plants stay too wet and the plant dies. First put in a 1/2 inch layer of pea gravel or aquarium grave. Next add 1/2 inch of horticultural gravel. You can add a layer of sphagnum moss is you want to prevent the next layer of soil from mixing into the charcoal and gravel. I tend not to because the moss often develops an unpleasant odor Then add about 2 inches (minimum) of a good potting soil rich in organic matter.","","Aggressively prune thin, straggly plants. Remove dead plants and leaves as soon as they appear.","Use stem tip or leaf cuttings from plants that have grown too large to propagate new plants.",""
"237","Wandering Jew Plant","TRADESCANTIA ZEBRINA","Wandering Jew plants like bright indirect light . The better the light, the more flowers and colorful leaves a Wandering Jew plant produces. Direct sun causes the purple and cream colors in the leaves to fade.","Water well and then allow the top 2"" to 3"" of soil to dry out before watering again. If the soil of a Wandering Jew plant stays too dry and the plant is in bright light , the leaves become stunted and lose color. Over watering causes root rot.","Feed monthly when a Wandering Jew plant is producing new growth with a water-soluble houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Using a plant food high in nitrogen helps a Wandering Jew plant produce more colorful leaves. Over- fertilizing is another reason why the bright colors in the leaves start to fade.","A Wandering Jew plant grows well in temperatures between 60degrees- 80degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees- 26.7degrees Celsius).","Average to higher household humidity is best. If the air is too dry, the leaf tips of a Wandering Jew plant turn brown. Place a Wandering Jew plant on a tray of wet pebbles to increase the humidity around it. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","In ideal growing conditions, a Wandering Jew plant produces small white, pink, or purple flowers.","Although Wandering Jew plants are fairly pest resistant, Aphids , scale , and Mealy Bugs can be a problem. See pictures and read more about these plant pests in the Glossary of the website.","The high humidity Wandering Jew plants prefer encourages fungal and bacterial infections.","Use a well- aerated soil that drains quickly. If the soil seems heavy and clay-like, add some peat moss and perlite.","A Wandering Jew plant is a fast growing plant so check the root-ball frequently to see if it needs re-potting. Move to the next size pot, nothing larger, and be sure there are drip holes in the bottom.","The vines of a Wandering Jew plant get very long and leggy as the plant matures; don't hesitate to aggressively prune a Wandering Jew plant. When pruning, cut the long stems above a leaf node (the place where the leaf is attached to the stem). It may take a while for the trimmed stems to bush out again, so be patient. Use the clippings to propagate new plants.","Wandering Jew plants are easily propagated from Stem Cuttings . When propagating, be sure to remove all leaves within two inches of the bottom of the cutting.","Wandering plants are slightly poisonous with a level #1 toxicity. The sap of is caustic and may cause skin irritations or a rash on both humans and dogs. A Wandering Jew plant is still considered safe to be put into bird or reptile enclosures."
"238","Yucca Plant","YUCCA ELEPHANTIPES","Yucca plants grow best in bright indirect light . A Yucca can survive indoors in lower light but will need very little water. The slow growing yucca will be even slower to produce new leaves in low to medium light. An ideal location is near a west, east, or south-facing window.","A Yucca plant originates in the deserts of Mexico and Guatemala so it likes to be kept dry. Allow at least the top 50% of the soil of a to dry out before watering. Over watering is the main and probably the only way to kill a yucca.","Feed monthly in the spring and summer with a basic houseplant food at 1/2 the recommended strength.","A yucca can adapt to temperatures as low as 35degrees and as high as 90degrees.","Yucca plants do well in basic and even low household humidity.","","Usual household plant pests stay away from a Yucca; even spider mites avoid this plant. If you do notice Mealy Bugs or scale , spray with the "" green solution "" (recipe in Glossary).","","Use a good quality, well-aerated, loose houseplant soil that drains quickly for a Yucca Plant. Add sand to the soil if it seems too heavy or clay-like.","Yucca plants like to be root-bound in small pots.","If a yucca plant becomes top heavy and keeps falling over, cut the trunks off 1/2 way down. New growth will appear on the old trunk making it bushier and less apt to topple. Start new yucca plants using the sections of trunk that you cut off.","A yucca plant is propagated by stem (trunk) cuttings and offsets .","Yucca plants are slightly poisonous with a #1 toxicity level . The poisonous part of the plant is difficult to reach, but a persistent child or pet might be able to get through the tough exterior and eat it."
"239","Zamioculcas zamiifolia","","ZZ plants can survive in low light , but grow faster in bright, indirect light. Since a ZZ plant is a slow grower even in good light, in low light these plants rarely produces new leaves. Direct sun may fade and burn the leaves. Stems droop over when there is not enough light and grow straight up when light is coming from above.","Over-watering is the main way to kill a ZZ plant. They do not like wet feet, so allow the soil to dry out before watering. ZZ plants have thick roots called rhizomes that store water, so when in doubt, do not water. Unlike most plants, Zamioculcas are very forgiving, allowing you to over-water a few times before showing signs of serious damage. Yellow leaves are an indication that the plant has been over-watered or severely under-watered. In very warm weather, a ZZ plant may need water every 7-10 days. In cooler weather, the plant may go 2-3 weeks before drying out. When you do water, water well enough so that the water comes out the drip holes in the bottom of the pot. Do not allow the plant to sit in the excess water.","Feed monthly when a ZZ plant is actively producing new leaves and every other month when it is not in a growing phase. Use a balanced, liquid plant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength. Too much plant food causes yellow leaves; this is called nutrient burn.","A Zamioculcas zamiifolia plant prefers temperatures between 60degrees-80degrees Fahrenheit (15.6degrees-26.7degrees Celsius). Temperatures below 60degrees Fahrenheit (16.6degrees Celsius) slow down the plant's growth.","ZZ plants do well in basic household humidity.","","These plants are very pest resistant.","ZZ plants are also resistant to most plant plant diseases, but quite susceptible to root-rot caused by over watering.","Use a well -aerated soil that retains water but drains quickly. Add sand if the soil becomes too heavy and compact.","ZZ plants can be found in 4""-14"" pots. These are very expensive plants, especially mature specimens, because they are such slow growers.","Prune yellow leaves and bare stems as soon as they develop.","Propagate a ZZ plant using stem or leaf cuttings. Be patient, it may take several months before you see any new growth on the cuttings. Read about propagation techniques in the Glossary of the website.","ZZplants, Zamioculcas zamiifolia, are extremely Poisonous Houseplants . They have a #4 (the highest) toxicity level ."
"240","Zebra Plant","APHELANDRA SQUARROSA","Zebra plants require very bright indirect light but no direct sun, especially if you want them to bloom.","Keep the soil moist but not soggy, and never allow the soil to totally dry out. Bottom leaves drop off a Zebra plant when it is over or under -watered.","Feed a Zebra plant weekly in the spring and summer with a basic houseplant food diluted to 1/2 the recommended strength.","Zebra plants prefer temperatures between 65degrees-75degrees. Prolonged exposure to temperatures below 60degrees causes leaves to fall off.","Zebra plants, native to the jungles of Brazil, like very high humidity. If necessary, place your Zebra plant on a tray of wet pebbles to help increase the moisture in the air around it. Be sure the plant is sitting on the pebbles and not in the water.","A Zebra plant produces flowers from a four sided yellow spike made up of overlapping bracts. The yellow flowers only last a few days, but the attractive bracts of a Zebra plant last for a month or two. Once the bright yellow bract fades, remove the entire flower spike.","Though somewhat pest resistant, whitefly , Mealy Bugs , Aphids , scale , and spider mites can all be a problem. These houseplants pests can all be treated with the green solution , but avoid spraying the flowers.","The high humidity a Zebra plant prefers encourages Fungal leaf spot disease . You can prevent this problem by keeping the leaves dry and providing good air circulation.","Zebra plants grow well in a fast- draining, highly organic potting soil such as an African Violet mix.","Zebra plants are usually found in 6"" pots.","Zebra Plants enjoy being trimmed, but wait until the plant has stopped blooming.","Use propagation by stem tip cuttings to start new Zebra plants.","Zebra plants are non- poisonous."
